AND CALL US TO
ORDER GOOD EVENING AND WELCOME
TO THE JUNE 7TH 20 22 REGULAR
MEETING OF THE ANIBA PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR DETAILED
INFORMATION AND MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTED MEETING AGENDA
WHICH IS AVAILABLE ONLINE.
MR. LEONARD, WILL YOU PLEASE
CALL RULE COMMISSIONER MELS
PRESENT COMMISSIONER RANDALL
HERE.
COMMISSIONER SAUVé HERE.
CHABON'S HERE.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
HERE.
COMMISSIONER DISH COMMISSIONER
>> COMMISSIONER CLARK HERE.
HERE.
COMMISSIONER WHICH HERE WE HAVE
>> COMMISSIONER CLARK HERE.
A VERY GOOD NEXT UP IS APPROVAL
COMMISSIONER WHICH HERE WE HAVE
OF THE AGENDA.
A VERY GOOD NEXT UP IS APPROVAL
>> CAN I HAVE A COMMISSIONER
OF THE AGENDA.
MOVE THE AGENDA MOVED BY
>> CAN I HAVE A COMMISSIONER
COMMISSIONER LEE SECONDED BY
MOVE THE AGENDA MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER BRANDELL ANY
COMMISSIONER LEE SECONDED BY
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA ALL IN
COMMISSIONER BRANDELL ANY
FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA ALL IN
RAISE A HAND AND OR SAY YES.
FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE
YES, THAT'S ALL OF THE HANDS
RAISE A HAND AND OR SAY YES.
THE MOTION CARRIES.
YES, THAT'S ALL OF THE HANDS
>> NEXT ARE THE MINUTES OF THE
THE MOTION CARRIES.
PREVIOUS MEETING MIDSCALE?
>> NEXT ARE THE MINUTES OF THE
DID SEND THEM TO US BEFORE THE
PREVIOUS MEETING MIDSCALE?
MEETING BUT JUST BEFORE THIS IS
DID SEND THEM TO US BEFORE THE
THE MINUTES OF THE MAY 17 THE
MEETING BUT JUST BEFORE THIS IS
MEETING.
THE MINUTES OF THE MAY 17 THE
>> WOULD ANYONE LIKE TO MOVE
MEETING.
THE MINUTE MOVE THE MINUTES
>> WOULD ANYONE LIKE TO MOVE
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
THE MINUTE MOVE THE MINUTES
HAMMERSCHMIDT SECONDED BY
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
COMMISSIONER GIVE.
HAMMERSCHMIDT SECONDED BY
ANY DISCUSSION OR PEOPLE FEEL
COMMISSIONER GIVE.
LIKE THEY NEED TO STILL LOOK AT
ANY DISCUSSION OR PEOPLE FEEL
THEM.
LIKE THEY NEED TO STILL LOOK AT
>> ALL RIGHT.
THEM.
SEEING NO NOTHING AT ALL IN
>> ALL RIGHT.
FAVOR OF THE MINUTES.
SEEING NO NOTHING AT ALL IN
>> PLEASE RAISE A HAND OR SAY
FAVOR OF THE MINUTES.
YES.
>> PLEASE RAISE A HAND OR SAY
YES, VERY GOOD.
YES.
THAT'S ALL OF THE HANDS.
YES, VERY GOOD.
NEXT UP IS ITEM FIVE WHICH ARE
THAT'S ALL OF THE HANDS.
THE REPORTS FROM CITY
NEXT UP IS ITEM FIVE WHICH ARE
ADMINISTRATION CITY COUNCIL
THE REPORTS FROM CITY
PLANNING MANAGER OFFICERS AND
ADMINISTRATION CITY COUNCIL
COMMITTEES AND WRITTEN
PLANNING MANAGER OFFICERS AND
COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSIONER
COMMITTEES AND WRITTEN
DISCUSSANT HERE TONIGHT.
COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSIONER
>> SO MR. LEINERT, DO YOU HAVE
DISCUSSANT HERE TONIGHT.
ANY UPDATES OR PROVIDE AN
>> SO MR. LEINERT, DO YOU HAVE
UPDATE ON THAT?
ANY UPDATES OR PROVIDE AN
YEAH, I'M JUST TRYING TO
UPDATE ON THAT?
ATTEND.
YEAH, I'M JUST TRYING TO
I WAS AT THE MEETING I THINK WE
ATTEND.
ONLY HAD ONE ITEM PROPOSED
I WAS AT THE MEETING I THINK WE
REZONING OF THIRTY FOUR ELEVEN
ONLY HAD ONE ITEM PROPOSED
CARRIES NO APOLOGIES.
REZONING OF THIRTY FOUR ELEVEN
THERE WAS A SINGLE FAMILY
CARRIES NO APOLOGIES.
CONVERSATION THAT WENT OVER OUR
THERE WAS A SINGLE FAMILY
REQUEST.
CONVERSATION THAT WENT OVER OUR
I FORGET THE ADDRESS THAT WAS
REQUEST.
THE ONLY THING ON THE AGENDA
I FORGET THE ADDRESS THAT WAS
LAST EVENING.
THE ONLY THING ON THE AGENDA
>> ALL RIGHT.
LAST EVENING.
ANY COMMISSIONER OFFICERS
>> ALL RIGHT.
COMMISSIONER BRANDL AT THE D.A.
ANY COMMISSIONER OFFICERS
PARTNERS COMMITTEE WE GOT A
COMMISSIONER BRANDL AT THE D.A.
VERY IN-DEPTH REPORT FROM THE
PARTNERS COMMITTEE WE GOT A
HEAD OF THE MTA AND I THINK IT
VERY IN-DEPTH REPORT FROM THE
MIGHT BEHOOVE US TO HAVE HIM
HEAD OF THE MTA AND I THINK IT
COME AND DO A LITTLE
MIGHT BEHOOVE US TO HAVE HIM
PRESENTATION ON THEIR NEW THE
COME AND DO A LITTLE
WHAT THEY HAVE ON THE BALLOT
PRESENTATION ON THEIR NEW THE
FOR THIS AUGUST BECAUSE I
WHAT THEY HAVE ON THE BALLOT
LEARNED ALL KINDS OF THINGS
FOR THIS AUGUST BECAUSE I
ABOUT THEIR SERVICE THAT I JUST
LEARNED ALL KINDS OF THINGS
HAD NO IDEA ABOUT IN TERMS
ABOUT THEIR SERVICE THAT I JUST
OF HOW AND I THINK IT REALLY
HAD NO IDEA ABOUT IN TERMS
CAN AFFECT HOW WE THINK ABOUT
OF HOW AND I THINK IT REALLY
HOW PEOPLE GET HERE BECAUSE
CAN AFFECT HOW WE THINK ABOUT
THERE REALLY ARE ALL THESE
HOW PEOPLE GET HERE BECAUSE
DIFFERENT KINDS OF SERVICES.
THERE REALLY ARE ALL THESE
IT WAS IT WAS REALLY
DIFFERENT KINDS OF SERVICES.
INTERESTING TO HEAR ABOUT.
IT WAS IT WAS REALLY
SO I THINK IT MAKES SENSE FOR
INTERESTING TO HEAR ABOUT.
US TO TRY TO IF IT'S POSSIBLE
SO I THINK IT MAKES SENSE FOR
TO MAKE THAT HAPPEN BEFORE THE
US TO TRY TO IF IT'S POSSIBLE
BALLOT INITIATIVE BECAUSE I
TO MAKE THAT HAPPEN BEFORE THE
THINK THAT WE CAN ALSO BE A WAY
BALLOT INITIATIVE BECAUSE I
OF BEING ABLE TO TRANSLATE WHAT
THINK THAT WE CAN ALSO BE A WAY
THAT'S ABOUT TO OTHERS AS WELL
OF BEING ABLE TO TRANSLATE WHAT
ON OUR OTHER VARIOUS
THAT'S ABOUT TO OTHERS AS WELL
APPOINTMENTS AND THINGS LIKE
ON OUR OTHER VARIOUS
THAT.
APPOINTMENTS AND THINGS LIKE
SO I WOULD PUT IN A VOTE FOR
THAT.
I KNOW WE HAVE A VERY FULL
AGENDA FOR OUR WORKING SESSIONS
BUT I THINK THAT IT WOULD
REALLY BE WISE OF US TO BE MORE
IN TOUCH WITH THE RANGE
OF SERVICES AND THE KINDS
OF SERVICES THAT THEY PROVIDE
NOW AND THAT THEY'RE HOPING TO
PROVIDE WITH THE BALLOT
INITIATIVE.
>> VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMITTEE LIAISON'S
GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER.
WITH RESPECT TO TRANSPORTATION
LAST MONTH WE TALKED ABOUT THE
REMOVAL OF PARKING ON DIVISION
KIND OF RIGHT NEAR THE HILL
GOING UP TO ONE OF THESE
MADISON IT'S WHAT DO WE HAVE
THAT KIND OF LIKE SEGMENTED WE
HAVE THE PARKING UPGRADING THE
BIKE LANES AND IT'S GOING TO GO
TO CITY COUNCIL TO JUST REMOVE
PARKING PERIOD REQUIRE CITY
COUNCIL ACTION BECAUSE PARKING
IS BEING REMOVED.
BUT I THINK THE OVERALL
CONSENSUS WAS THAT AFTER
LOOKING AT OUTCOMES ANALYSIS,
PEOPLE ARE MORE PARKING NOT
WITHIN THE LANES THEMSELVES AND
CREATING KIND OF LIKE TRAFFIC
PATTERN SHOES.
SO THAT DESIGN IS GETTING I
THINK ALTERED IN GOING TOITY
COUNCIL.
SO I'M ASIDE FROM THAT ACTUALLY
8A IS OBVIOUSLY GO TO THE
BALLOT.
>> SO I DO THINK THAT IS
SOMETHING IMPORTANT MAKING SURE
THAT WE HAVE LAND USE AND
TRANSPORTATION
BEING ALIGNED IN
THAT RESPECT ASIDE FROM THAT,
THERE'S A FEW OTHER KIND
OF INFRASTRUCTURE LEVEL
PROJECTS THAT WE TALKED ABOUT
BUT I THINK THE MOST IMPORTANT
ONE WAS A DIVISION SO THAT'S
IT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER GO AHEAD.
MR. LEONARD.
I JUST ALSO HAD THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSIONER
ALSO REVIEWED AND ENDORSED THE
PROPOSED PARKING AMENDMENTS
THAT THE PLANNING COMMISSION
PROFFERED VERY GOOD OR C DID
MEET TWO WEEKS AGO WE HAD A
EARLY CONVERSATION WITH MR.
LEONARD ABOUT INCLUDING
SUSTAINABILITY WITHIN THE UDC.
SO WE TALKED ABOUT
ELECTRIFICATION, SOLAR
READINESS KIND OF HELPED THINK
THROUGH WHAT SOME OPTIONS MIGHT
BE AND I'M EXPECTING THAT WE'LL
SEE THAT BACK TO THE FULL
COMMITTEE YESHE SO YEAH GREAT
SHE SOONISH I LIKE THAT GREAT.
ANYTHING ELSE NOW THEN WE CAN
MOVE ON.
>> THERE WERE SOME
COMMUNICATIONS IN OUR PACKETS
ABOUT A RANGE OF DIFFERENT
TOPICS SOME THK ONE MANY TAKE
ONE BUT OTHERS AS WELL.
>> SO WE ARE ON TO ITEM SIX
THEN WHICH IS THE FIRST
OPPORTUNITY FOR PUBLIC COMMENT
PERSONS HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES
ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT'S NOT
LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING ON
THIS AGENDA.
WELL FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
WHO ARE PRESENT HERE IN COUNCIL
CHAMBERS TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THE PUBLIC HEARING.
IF YOU'RE JOINING REMOTELY,
PLEASE, PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
IF YOU'RE LISTENING BY PHONE OR
USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE IF
YOU'RE VIEWING THROUGH THE WEB
LINK FOR PHONE ACCESS, CALL 877
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND THEN ENTER MEETING ID
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIXTY SIX
THIRTY FOUR TWELVE TWENTY SIX.
MR. LEONARD WILL CALL SELECT
THOSE WHO HAVE RAISED THEIR
HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF YOUR TELEPHONE NUMBER
OR CALLING YOUR NAME IF YOU
JOIN THROUGH ZUM YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
AND IN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO
A QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND SOUND
SO THAT WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY
FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE HERE THAT
WOULD LIKE TO PROVIDE PUBLIC
COMMENT?
MR. GARBER?
>> THANK YOU, TURNELL HUNGOVER
TWENTY EIGHT HILCORP HOME.
>> I'M GOING TO TALK ABOUT
BUILDING ELECTRIFICATION YET
AGAIN.
LET ME READ YOU SOME QUOTES
FROM RECENT MEETINGS.
QUOTE OH, THIS IS FROM
MAPLECROFT, THE ARCHITECT ABOUT
THE OWNER QUOTE IT'S STILL A
LONG WAYS OFF IN HIS THINKING
TO MAKE A COMMITMENT BUT HE IS
NOT OBJECTING TO DOING
ELECTRIFICATION.
IT IS ONE OPTION HE IS
CONSIDERING END QUOTE ON TO
TWELVE MORE.
WE'LL BE LOOKING AT EVERYTHING
AS WE GET FURTHER INTO THE
PROJECT THREE THIRTY DETROIT
STREET WE HONESTLY ARE NOT SURE
WHAT WE WILL BE USING FOR OUR
HEATING AND COOLING SYSTEM.
WE'RE WORKING THROUGH IT
NOTICED THE PATTERN DEFLECTION
DISCUSSION NO ONE WANTS TO TALK
ABOUT UPFRONT COSTS.
IOI SUPPLY CHAIN ISSUES, ENERGY
USE INTENSITY COEFFICIENTS FOR
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION THAT
WOULD BE USEFUL TO THE
COMMISSION, TO STAFF AND TO THE
PUBLIC.
THAT'S BECAUSE TO ENGAGE IN
THIS DISCUSSION WOULD BE TO
LEGITIMIZE IT WHEN THEY SAY
IT'S TOO SOON TO TALK, WHAT
THEY'RE REALLY SAYING IS IT'S
NONE OF YOUR BUSINESS HOW WE
HEAT OUR BUILDINGS.
YOU CAN BRING UP PARKING
STORMWATER SETBACKS BUT STAY
OUT OF OUR BASEMENT MECHANICAL
ROOM.
THEY HAVE A POINT.
THIS IS NOT A ZONING ISSUE.
IT'S A BUILDING CODE .
IT'S TO THIS COMMISSION'S GREAT
CREDIT THAT IT DOES PUSH
ELECTRIFICATION AND YOU ARE
EXPLORING AMENDING THE UDC.
I AM GRATEFUL FOR THAT
PERSONALLY.
BUT ELECTRIFICATION IS NOT SOME
NICE EXTRA.
IT IS NOT AN OPTION.
IT IS NOT SOMETHING WE HOPE
DEVELOPERS CONSIDER WHEN THEY
GET AROUND TO DRAWING UP THEIR
FINAL PLANS.
IT'S OFFICIAL CITY POLICY AS
OF JUNE 1ST TWENTY TWENTY
THAT'S WHEN COUNCIL APPROVED
THE EIGHT ZERO PLAN STRATEGY TO
ACTION ONE OF THE PLAN AND PAID
THIRTY TWO INCLUDES THE
FOLLOWING ASSUMPTION QUOTE ALL
NEW RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL
BUILDINGS ARE DESIGNED AND
BUILT TO OPERATE WITHOUT THE
USE OF NATURAL GAS END QUOTE.
WE MAY NOT ALWAYS HAVE THE
AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE IT BUT
IT'S THERE WE ARE FAILING
MAPLECROFT TWO TO TWELVE
MILLION THREE THIRTY DETROIT
TOGETHER WE'LL PUT ONE THOUSAND
ONE HUNDRED EIGHTY SEVEN METRIC
TON CO2 EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS A
YEAR INTO THE ATMOSPHERE IF
THEY USE GAS THAT FIGURE TAKES
INTO ACCOUNT THE HYBRID DUAL
FUEL SYSTEM ATWO TO TWELVE
MILLION WHICH ACTUALLY ONLY
ONLY REDUCES GAS EMISSIONS BY
MAYBE 10 PERCENT.
FOR PERSPECTIVE THOSE NEARLY
TWELVE HUNDRED TONS WIPE OUT
MOST OF THE EMISSION SAVINGS
FROM THE TWO MEGAWATTS NEW
SOLAR INSTALLED THROUGH THE
CITY SOLAR RIGHTS GROUP BUYING
PROGRAM.
>> INSTALLING SOLAR IS
SELF-DEFEATING WHEN AT THE SAME
TIME WE'RE LOCKING IN GAS FOR
THE NEXT HALF CENTURY.
THE CLIMATE DOES NOT RESPOND TO
GOOD INTENTIONS OR TO SYMBOLIC
ACTS OR TO CARBON NEUTRALITY
TARGETS.
IT ONLY RESPONDS TO ONE THING
AND THAT'S THE RAW PHYSICS HOW
MUCH CO2 AND OTHER GREENHOUSE
GASES WE DUMPED INTO THE
ATMOSPHERE THAT'S NOTHING MORE
.
THANK YOU MR. LEARNER.
ARE THERE ANY CALLERS ONLINE
THAT INDICATED AN INTEREST IN
SPEAKING OUT OR NOT?
ALL RIGHT, I'LL WE'LL MOVE ON
TO THE NEXT ITEM WHICH IS
NUMBER SEVEN, THE PUBLIC
HEARINGS THAT ARE SCHEDULED FOR
OUR NEXT REGULAR MEETING.
WE HAVE NO NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS
SCHEDULED FOR THE TWENTY THIRD.
DO WE CURRENTLY HAVE ANYTHING
ELSE THAT WE'RE EXPECTING TO
RETURN?
>> NOT CURRENTLY.
>> OK, VERY GOOD.
SO POTENTIALLY IN A
PRESENTATION I WAS ACTUALLY
THINKING THAT BUT MAYBE NOT IN
PERSON ANYWAY TO BE TALKED
ABOUT LATER.
OK ITEM EIGHT THEN HIS REGULAR
BUSINESS SO A IS THREE FORTY
DEPOT STREET SITE PLANNED AND
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT REZO
NING WHILE MR. LEINERT IS
BRINGING IN THE PETITIONERS I
WILL REMIND FOLKS THAT THE
PETITIONERS WILL HAVE UP TO TEN
MINUTES TO PROVIDE A
PRESENTATION THEN WE'LL HAVE A
STAFF REPORT AND THE PUBLIC
HEARING BEFORE COMMISSION
DISCUSSION OF THE ITEM.
>> HELLO MR. KOWALSKI.
GOOD EVENING
.
I THINK WE'RE GOING TO LEAD OFF
WITH THE PETITION WE FIRST WE
WILL.
YEP.
AND I WAS JUST WANTING TO SEE
DO WE HAVE EVERYBODY MR. NAMES?
DO YOU HAVE EVERYBODY THEY ARE
EXPECTING OR IS IT JUST YOU?
IT'S JUST ME AND MR. HIRSCH
FROM MIDWESTERN CONSULTING.
GREAT.
I BELIEVE HE'S ON OAK AND DOES
EVERYBODY WHO DO YOU NEED TO
SHARE SLIDES?
>> DO YOU HAVE THAT ABILITY?
YEAH, I THINK SO.
YOU JUST STILL DISABLED FROM
SCREEN SHARING I THINK BRANT
MAY HAVE TO GIVE THEM
PERMISSION.
>> THERE WE GO.
DO YOU GUYS SEE THAT WE CAN.
ALL RIGHT.
I SPENT ABOUT A YEAR SINCE WE
WERE BEFORE EVERYBODY
PREVIOUSLY DISCUSSED THIS
PROJECT.
I WAS JUST GOING TO TAKE A
MOMENT TO KIND OF GO THROUGH
WHERE WE STARTED AND NOW WHERE
WE ENDED UP AND THEN TURN IT
BACK OVER TO TO MATT FOR
SUPPORT.
BUT YOU KNOW, WE'RE LOOKING AT
THREE FORTY DIPO DIRECTLY SOUTH
OF THE TRAIN STATION.
WE HAVE THE MASTER PLAN ZONING
WHICH CALLS FOR THIS ENTIRE
BLOCK BETWEEN DPO SUMMIT FOR
CENTRAL COMMERCIAL OFFICE.
WE ARE LOOKING TO HAVE REZONE
PUDI DUE TO SOME CONFLICTING
LAND USE BUFFERS AND TO
ALLEVIATE SOME OF THE
REQUIREMENTS OF THE HE WON'T BE
FRONT SET BACK AS WELL AS TO
BETTER ALIGN WITH THE CITY
MASTER PLAN GOALS.
>> THE CURRENT ZONING IS C ONE
B FOR OUR PARCEL THE PASSES
DIRECTLY SOUTH OF US THE GARNET
WHICH IS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
RIGHT NOW PREVIOUSLY REZONE AS
PAD FOR RESIDENTIAL USE.
PART OF THE REASON WE'RE
SEEKING THE OR THE MAJOR REASON
WE'RE SEEKING THE PDS IS DUE TO
THESE 15 FOOT CONFLICTING LAND
USE BUFFER SETBACKS AND THAT'S
NOT BECAUSE THE ZONING ITSELF
IS SOMETHING THAT REQUIRES A
CONFLICTING LAND USE.
BUT THE RESIDENTIAL U OF THE
PROPERTY TO THE EAST INTO THE
SOUTH OF US REQUIRE THAT 15
FOOT SET BACK AND WHEN WE
CAPTURE THAT ALONG WITH THE TEN
FOOT SETBACK THAT IS REQUIRED
FOR C WON'T BE IN THE ZONING WE
END UP WITH A BUILT A REALLY
KIND OF MINI BUILDABLE AREA
OF ABOUT THREE OR FOUR HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET.
THERE IS AN EXISTING BUILDING
ON SITE.
IT IS NONCONFORMING.
YOU CAN SEE THAT IT IS SET BACK
SIGNIFICANTLY FROM THE STREET.
IT IS NOT MEETING HEIGHT
REQUIREMENTS, NOT MEETING
MACING REQUIREMENTS AND SO
WE'RE SEEKING TO REMOVE THAT
AND REDEVELOP WHEN WE MET ABOUT
A YEAR AGO IT WAS JUNE 22ND WE
CAME FORWARD WITH THIS MAIN
LEVEL PLAN.
WE HAD TEN PARKING SPACES, SOME
SMALL RETAIL SMALL OFFICE USE
WITH ACCESS WAY FROM THE PUBLIC
SIDEWALK BACK INTO A
RESIDENTIAL LOBBY AND WITH
SINGLE THERE AN ELEVATOR TO
ACCESS FOR RESIDENTIAL UNITS UP
ON A SECOND LEVEL IN THAT
MEETING WE TALKED ABOUT A LOT
OF THINGS I THINK WAS REALLY
PRODUCTIVE MEETING AND WE CAME
BACK AFTER HEARING WHAT
EVERYBODY SAID WHICH IS REALLY
ABOUT A REDUCTION IN PARKING
SEEKING SOME MORE SUSTAINABLE
GOALS WITH THE PROPERTY AND
OFFERING SOMETHING THAT
ACTIVATED THE SIDEWALK MORE
SIGNIFICANTLY THAT WE WERE
DOING BY HAVING THE PARKING
ALONG THE FRONT AND
RECONFIGURED THE FIRST FLOOR
LAYOUT TO INVOLVE SIXTY FIVE
ABOUT
SIX HUNDRED FIFTY SQUARE
FEET OF RETAIL ALONG THE STREET
WHERE THE PATIO WILL GET TO
SOME IMAGES LATER AND TALK
ABOUT HOW WE ACTIVATED THAT
AREA ABOUT 750 SQUARE FEET
OF OFFICE THAT RESIDENTIAL CORE
MOSTLY REMAINS THE SAME.
WE ALSO SPLIT ACCESS BETWEEN
RAMPS AND STAIRS AND
CREATED COVERED PATIO SPACE
WITHIN THE BUILDING ENVELOPE
ITSELF BUT ALSO EXTERIOR PATIO
SPACE ELEVATED ABOVE A
RETAINING OR ADD A RETAINING
WALL THAT'S ABOUT TWO FEET
ABOVE THE SIDEWALK PLAIN.
THIS RETAINING WALL IS REALLY
IMPORTANT BECAUSE THE
FLOODPLAIN MAP DESIGNATED BY
THIS BLUE LINE IS DRAWN TO THAT
EXISTING RETAINING WALL WHEN
THEY CAME AND REDID THE FEMA
FLOOD PLAIN MAPS.
SO THIS PORTION OF THE
RETAINING WALL IS GOING TO
REMAIN.
WE MIGHT REBUILD IT IN PLACE
BUT THE FOOTPRINT WILL MOSTLY
REMAIN UNCHANGED AND WE'RE
SHORTENING IT SLIGHTLY TO
ACCOMMODATE THESE DIFFERENT
MODES OF ACCESS FROM THE
SIDEWALK INTO INTO THE
DEVELOPMENT FROM THAT
DISCUSSION WE KEPT THE FOUR
MAIN UNITS ON THE UPPER LEVEL
JUST ONE ONE LEVEL OF UNITS
ABOUT SEVEN HUNDRED SEVENTY
FIVE SQUARE FEET FOR THE ONE
BEDROOM UNITS ABOUT THIRTEEN
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET FOR THE TWO
BED.
THIS UNIT DID GET A LITTLE BIT
LARGER THAN WAS PREVIOUSLY.
PREVIOUSLY WE KIND OF CAME
STRAIGHT ACROSS FROM THIS
LITTLE RECESS HERE BUT JUST IN
WORKING THROUGH SOME OF THE
LOGISTICS AND WANTING TO OFFER
A MORE SUBSTANTIAL UNIT TYPE
OUTSIDE OF THE ONE BEDROOMS WE
ACCOMMODATE THIS THIRTEEN
HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT TWO BEDROOM
THAT ALSO CAME IN CONJUNCTION
WITH THE ADDITION OF A THIRD
FLOOR PATIO ROOF ACCESS AND TWO
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET OF GREEN
ROOF TO BE APPLIED TO HELP WITH
INTAKE CAN TALK TO SOME OF THE
NUMBERS IF WE WANT OUR FIRST
FLUSH IN OUR STORMWATER
REQUIREMENTS TO HELP SLOW SOME
OF THAT STORMWATER RUNOFF ON
THE PROPERTY SO THE BUILDING
CONTINUES TO EVOLVE AS THINGS
DO.
WE'RE MAINTAINING THE SIX POINT
FIFTY SQUARE FEET OF RETAIL,
THE 750 SQUARE FEET OF OFFICE.
MOST OF THIS IS IS UNCHANGED.
WE HAVE INCLUDED ONE EVERY
INSTALL FOR THESE TWO SPACES
HERE READY TO COVER THE REST
OF THE SPACES WHICH WILL EXCEED
THE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS THAT
PERSON WILL NEED.
WE HAVE CLASS EIGHT BY PARKING
LOCATED HERE.
>> I THINK THIS IS KNOWN AS
CLASS C BUT IT WILL HAVE A
SMALL CANOPY THAT COVERS IT.
SO I THINK IT MIGHT COUNT AS
CLASS B BICYCLE PARKING ALONG
THE FRONT AND THEN SOME MORE
CLASS A BIKE PARKING FOR THE
RESIDENCES STUFFED INTO THE
BACK AGAIN THE UPPER FLOOR
UNITS THEY'LL ALL HAVE AMPLE
BALCONIES ALONG THE NORTH FACE
WE HAVE INDICATING SOME WINDOWS
TO LET SOME DAYLIGHT INTO THE
HALLWAY.
THAT'S SOMETHING WE'RE STILL
KIND OF PLAYING WITH.
WE'RE STILL SHOWING THIS LITTLE
RECESS HERE BUT THIS IS THE
INCREASE OF THAT SECOND FLOOR
UNIT AND AGAIN THE ROOF PATIO
WITH TWO THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
OF GREEN ROOF AT A MINIMUM TO
HELP MITIGATE SOME OF THIS
STORM RUNOFF SURROUNDING
CHARACTER.
WE TRIED TO WORK WITHIN THE
IT'S A LOW DENSITY AREA MOSTLY
SINGLE STORY DIRECTLY ADJACENT
TO US, KIND OF AN INDUSTRIAL
LOOK TO A LOT OF THE BUILDINGS
JUST KIND OF A SEMI HISTORIC
AREA.
WE HAVE LOWERTOWN IN KOREATOWN
AS ADJACENT AS ADJOINING
NEIGHBORHOODS.
THE GARDEN IT DIRECTLY TO THE
SOUTH OF US AND THE BUILDING
THAT WE'RE PROPOSING WHICH WE
THINK KEEPS IN SCALE WITH THE
SURROUNDING BUILDINGS HELPS TO
MEET A FEW OF THE MASTER PLAN
GOALS OF THE CITY BY BEING ON
THE SHIP THIS FORWARD TO WITHIN
FOUR FEET OF THE PROPERTY LINE
AND AMASSING A VOLUME THAT IS
MORE IN LINE WITH THE WITH
WHERE WE FEEL THE CITY IS
TRYING TO GO AND ALSO ADDING A
MIX OF RESIDENTIAL UNIT TYPES
TO FILL A KIND OF A GAP FOR
THAT SMALL THAT SMALLER UNIT
SIZE FOR RENT.
THIS IS A VIEW FROM THE
NORTHEAST.
THIS IS SHOWING THE PATIO THAT
WILL SERVE THE RETAIL BUT ALSO
THERE'S A PLAN TO DESIGN THIS
RAIL TO FALL DOWN INTO SEATS SO
THAT WILL ALLOW A MOMENTARY
RESPITE PLACE FOR PEDESTRIANS
ALONG THE SIDEWALK.
>> JUST THE VIEW EXISTING
CONDITIONS OF THAT NONCOM
FORMING BUILDING FROM THE EAST
AND HOW WE WERE PROPOSED TO
BRING THAT MORE INTO ALIGNMENT
VIEW FROM THE NORTHWEST, VIEW
FROM THE BRIDGE.
I KNOW WE TALKED ABOUT THIS A
LITTLE BIT HOW YOU WE'LL HAVE
THE USE OF THAT GREEN ROOF UP
ON THE TOP AND I THINK THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT OWNERS FEELING
VERY CONFIDENT ABOUT AND THEN
JUST A COUPLE MORE SHOTS.
>> SO THIS WE CAN SEE THE
SIDEWALK AND THE STAIR ENTRY
SEPARATION'S.
THIS WILL BE THE OFFICE PORTION
WITH THE RETAIL PORTION BEHIND
THESE WINDOWS IN THIS AREA A
VIEW FROM THE WEST AND FINALLY
A DUSK VIEW SHOWING INDICATING
SOME OF THE LIGHTING THAT IS
PROPOSED ALL DOWN LIGHTING THAT
WILL COMPLY WITH THE DARK SKY
POLICIES OF THE CITY IS TRYING
TO TRY THE I DON'T KNOW IF TED
WANTS TO SPEAK FOR A MOMENT
ABOUT WE CAN GO AHEAD.
>> YEP.
YEP.
>> PRETTY SIMPLE AS FAR
UTILITIES ON THE PUBLIC
INFRASTRUCTURE DEPOT STREET
IT'S GOING TO BE UTILIZED
TAPPING THE EXISTING SANITARY
AND WATER MAIN.
>> THE ONE LITTLE BIT UNIQUE
ASPECT WOULD BE THAT THE
NEIGHBOR THREE TWENTY PEOPLE
STREET HAS AN EXISTING WATER
SERVICE LEAD THAT CROSSES THE
FRONT OF THREE 340 DEPOT STREET
.
SO AS PART OF THE PROJECT THAT
CONNECTION WILL BE ELIMINATED
AND THEY'LL HAVE A NEW
CONNECTION THAT GETS TAKEN
STRAIGHT TO THE STREET ON THEIR
FRONTAGE AS FAR AS FOUR DAVID
HAD MENTIONED EARLIER THAT THE
PROJECT PROPOSES A GREEN ROOF
SO THAT'LL BE HANDLING THE
FIRST FLUSH STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS AND
WE'LL BE FLOODING THE DEPOT
STREET.
THERE WILL BE SOME NEW STORM
SEWER CONSTRUCTED IN THE
CURRENT LINES CONNECTED TO SOME
EXISTING STORM TO KEEP
AND THEN
WE JUST HAVE THIS LAST SLIDE
HERE TO KIND OF ILLUSTRATE IN
THAT PATCHED AREA IS WHERE THE
EXISTING WATER THREE TWENTY
DEFO STREET RUNS RIGHT NOW AND
IT ACTUALLY IS WITHIN PECULIAR
EASEMENT THAT THE PROJECT IS
PROPOSING TO BE ABANDONED.
SO THERE'S THERE'S AN EXISTING
RETAINING WALL TO HELP DEAL
WITH THE GREAT CHANGE FROM THE
STREET AND THE SIDEWALK TO THE
SITE AND POTENTIALLY THE
PROJECT IS GOING TO BE
RECONSTRUCTING THAT RETAINING
WALL IN THE IN THE SAME EXACT
PLACE.
IS THAT SO IN ORDER TO COMPLY
WITH CITY STANDARDS AND NOT
HAVING RETAINING WALLS AND
OTHER FEATURES IN AN EVEN FOR
THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY, THE
PROJECT PROPOSES TO HAVE THAT
VACATED, THAT PORTION VACATED.
SO WE DISCUSSED THAT WITH STAFF
AND THEY WON'T IT WON'T IMPACT
THE SIDEWALK.
IT WON'T IMPACT THE PUBLIC'S
USE OF THE ACTUAL RIGHT AWAY
AND POST STREET.
IT JUST KIND OF CLEANS UP SOME
OF THE STUFF FROM THE EXISTING
CASTLE AND I THINK THIS IS A
GOOD PLACE TO TO YOU KNOW, WE
DON'T HAVE A MAP AND WE DON'T
HAVE A QUANTIFIED AMOUNT
OFFHAND.
THIS SITE HISTORICALLY WAS
OWNED BUT BY DTI AND THEY
OPERATED A COKE PLANT ON IT.
SO A COUPLE OF TIMES IN THE
PAST HAS COME IN AND REMOVED
SOME SOIL FROM THE NORTH SIDE
OF THE PROPERTY.
THEY'VE ALSO COME IN AND
REMOVED SOME SOIL FROM THE
SOUTH SIDE OF THE SIDE OF THE
PROPERTY.
THEY CONTINUE TO MONITOR IT AND
IT IS ON THEIR LIST.
THEY SUSPECT THERE'S
CONTAMINATED SOILS UNDERNEATH
THE BUILDING BUT THEY DON'T
HAVE ACCESS TO THEM.
SO AS PART OF THIS
REDEVELOPMENT AND THIS IS
OUTLINED IN THE PARTY THERE
WILL BE REMEDIATION TO THOSE
SOILS CONSISTENT WITH STATE
GUIDELINES TO REMOVE THOSE TO
WHATEVER EXTENT NECESSARY WE
HAVE REACHED MEAN IT'S JUST FOR
THE VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, MR.
KAWALSKY.
>> ANYTHING TO ADD DR. JUST
THEY DID A GREAT JOB
SUMMARIZING UP THE THE DETAILS
OF THE ACTUAL PROJECT.
WHAT I'LL JUST TOUCH ON A
LITTLE BIT ARE WHAT WE HAVE IN
THE SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS AS
I'M SURE ALL PLANNING
COMMISSION IS AWARE AS A PD IT
HAS ITS OWN SET OF SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATION, BASICALLY ITS OWN
ZONING DISTRICT THAT WE HAVE
WRITTEN FOR FOR THIS PROJECT IN
PARTICULAR.
SO A COUPLE OF THESE BUT WITH
THAT DEPUTY EITHER SOME
FINDINGS THAT STAFF AND
ULTIMATELY PLANNING COMMISSION
WOULD HAVE TO AGREE WITH IN
ORDER TO APPROVE THE AND
ULTIMATELY CITY COUNCIL IN
ORDER TO APPROVE THOSE THAT
THOSE ARE OUTLINED IN THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS.
I WAS JUST GOING TO READ THOSE
THE KIND OF THE MORE DETAILED
ONES JUST REALLY QUICKLY SO WE
CAN FOR ANYBODY LISTEN TO THE
AUDIENCE AS WELL THAT MAY NOT
HAVE ACCESS TO THAT.
SO AND THESE ARE AGAIN SOME
OF THE NOTED FINDINGS OF THE
PARTY AND I MEAN YOU COULD CALL
THEM PUBLIC BENEFITS BUT THOSE
ARE THE ITEMS THAT CAN BE IN
EXCHANGE FOR SOME OF THIS
FLEXIBILITY WE'RE GIVING TO
SOME OF THE THINGS WE GET BACK
SO AGAIN, A SMALL SCALE MIXED
USE PROJECT PROVIDING A MINIMUM
OF THIRTEEN HUNDRED SQUARE FEET
OF OFFICE OR RETAIL USE ON THE
FIRST FLOOR.
AGAIN, THOSE ARE THINGS THAT
ARE OUTLINED IN THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS THAT
THE FIRST FLOOR REMAIN
RETAILER
OFFICE USE THE LAND USE BY
REDUCING PARKING AND USING THAT
FLORIDA TO PROVIDE RETAIL OR
OFFICE USES INSTEAD THAT WILL
HELP ACTIVATE THAT FRONT AGAIN.
THAT WAS SOMETHING THAT CAME
OUT OF SUGGESTION FROM YOUR
ORIGINAL PREPARED CONFERENCE
ACTIVATION OF THAT GROUND FLOOR
THROUGH THE REDUCED FRONT FROM
THAT BACK BRINGING THAT BACK
THE CODE AS YOU SAW IN THE
PREVIOUS DIAGRAM WOULD PUSH THE
BUILDING BACK 10 FEET AND AGAIN
WHILE WE'RE THERE PROPOSING TO
FOUR FEET IN THAT AREA, IT'S
VERY CONSISTENT WITH THAT WITH
THE SURROUNDING STREETSCAPE.
>> MANY OF THOSE BUILDINGS ARE
RIGHT AT THE FRONT PROPERTY
LINE, THE MINIMUM OF A TWELVE
SQUARE FOOT OF VEGETATED ROOF
TO ASSIST WITH STORM WATER AS
WELL AS ANY HEAT ISLAND EFFECTS
THE DESIGN ESTHETICS CONSISTENT
WITH THE NEIGHBORHOOD BUILDINGS
DESIGNED AND MATERIALS
CONSISTENT WITH SURROUNDING
AREA AND HIGH QUALITY MATERIALS
THEY SAY NOT THE AGAIN WHAT
WE'VE GOT LOCKED IN THE
ELEVATIONS THAT ARE PROVIDED
FOR YOU WITH I THINK MR.
KOWALSKI.
>> THERE YOU GO.
I JUST I JUST YOU DID WE YOU
LEFT US AT HIGH QUALITY
MATERIALS ISH.
OH, IF YOU WANT TO GET OK THANK
YOU.
>> I HAVE A PROJECT I REALLY
LAST ONE IS WAS ALREADY
PREVIOUSLY MENTIONED WAS THE
ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION AND I
MEAN OBVIOUSLY THEY CAN DO SOME
AROUND THE BUILDING WITH THE
EXISTING BUILDING BEING THERE
THAT THAT WOULD MAKE THAT PART
DIFFICULT.
ONE OF THE OTHER THINGS THAT I
WANTED TO TOUCH TALK AND THE
PERMITTED USES AGAIN OTHER THAN
KIND OF RESTRICTING THAT FIRST
FOR USE TO THE THEY THEY ARE
KIND OPEN TO OTHER
FLEXIBILITIES WITHIN THE
GENERAL C ONE B WHAT'S ALLOWED
IS GOING TO BE DISTRACTED BY
SUBOFFICE AND OBVIOUSLY
RESIDENTIAL.
ONE OF THE THING I WANT TO
TOUCH ON BECAUSE WE DID PUT IT
AS A IT WAS MENTIONED BRIEFLY
BY MR. HIRSCH I BELIEVE AS PART
OF THE PROJECT WHICH IS A BIT
OF A VACATION THE STREET WAS
NOT QUITE THE STREET WAS NOT A
COMMUNICATION.
IT'S A RIGHT OF WAY VACATION IN
THE FRONT OF THE WHARFIE KIND
OF OF AN EXTRA PUBLIC OUT
OF THE WAY THAT THAT WE HAVE.
BUT THAT HAS BEEN THAT'S BEEN
DISCUSSED OF ENGINEERING AND
THEY DO SUPPORT THAT.
THINK OF THAT FOUR FEET.
IT'S NOT CONSISTENT WITH THE
SURROUNDING AREA.
SO I EVEN HAD A MEETING JUST
ABOUT TWO HOURS BEFORE THIS TO
DISCUSS THAT.
ULTIMATELY WE'LL HAVE TO GO TO
CITY COUNCIL FOR FINAL APPROVAL
OF THAT VACATION.
BUT AND THAT WOULD BE SOMETHING
THAT HAVE TO BE DONE BEFORE
BUILDING PERMITS.
BUT I WILL BE FOLLOWING UP WITH
THE PETITION AFTER THIS AND WE
WILL GET THAT GET THAT PROCESS
MOVING.
I MEAN IT'S POSSIBLE EVEN WELL,
I'M NOT SURE IT MAY BE POSSIBLE
TO GET IT SET UP WITH THIS
PROJECT AS IT GOES TO AS THIS
PROJECT IS YOU KNOW, HAS TO GO
TO COUNCIL BECAUSE IT'S
REZONING AS WELL AS SITE
PLANNING.
SO IF IT'S NOT HOOKED UP
DIRECTLY WITH THAT, IT WOULD BE
SHORTLY AFTER THAT AND I REALLY
WANT TO SUPPORT THAT THAT THAT
VACATION WILL BE APPROVED AND
OBVIOUSLY THE PROJECT WOULD GO
FOR IT SO THAT THAT REALLY
SUMMARIZES UP MY PRESENTATION
THIS TIME AND OF COURSE I AM
AVAILABLE FOR ANY QUESTIONS AND
STAFF IS RECOMMENDING APPROVAL
OF THE PROJECT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ALL RIGHT.
AT THIS TIME I WILL OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE THREE
FORTY DEPO PAD ZONING DISTRICT
AND SITE PLAN WHICH WILL BE FOR
CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL.
WELL, FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
HERE THAT ARE IN COUNCIL
CHAMBERS AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS AGAIN IF YOU HAVE
ALREADY DIALED IN YOU CAN PRESS
STAR NINE IF YOU'RE LISTENING
BY PHONE YOU CAN USE THE RAISED
HAND FEATURE IF YOU'RE VIEWING
THROUGH THE WEB LINK OR YOU CAN
CALL NOW AT EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIXTY SIX THIRTY
FOUR TWELVE TWENTY SIX MR.
LEARNER WILL SELECT THOSE WHO
HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY BACKGROUND
SOUND SO THAT WE CAN HEAR YOU
CLEARLY.
>> PLEASE ALSO STATE THE NAME
STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT
THE BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
ANYONE HERE LIKE TO PARTICIPATE
IN THE PUBLIC HEARING
?
THANK YOU AGAIN TERMINALS AND
GARBA AGAIN THERE ARE BENEFITS
TO THIS PERIOD INCLUDING FOR
HOUSING UNITS SOME OFFICER
RETAIL ONE INSTALLED HEAVY
PARKING SPACE AND SOME LIKELY
CLEAN UP.
I DON'T SEE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
OR AN AFFORDABLE HOUSING
CONTRIBUTION.
I CAN'T FIND A SUSTAINABILITY
REVIEW FROM OSA IN THE DOCUMENT
THAT WILL FOCUS ON THE GREEN
ROOF AND ELECTRIFICATION.
GREEN ROOFS ARE GREAT.
THEY INTEGRATE AND REDUCE HEAT
.
THEY ABSORB CO2 AND THEY RETAIN
STORMWATCH.
BUT LET'S QUANTIFY THE
EMISSIONS FROM THREE FORTY DPO
.
THERE WAS A STUDY RECENTLY IN
THE JOURNAL AEROSOL AND AIR
QUALITY RESEARCH ANALYZING A
STATE OF THE ART GREEN ROOF AND
WUXI CHINA WHICH IS A HOT
SUMMER COLD WINTER CLIMATE THAT
GREEN ROOF ABSORBS AND I
APOLOGIZE FOR THE NUMBERS ONE
POINT SEVEN NINE KG CO2 PER
SQUARE METER ANNUALLY AND
EMISSIONS SAVINGS FROM LOWER
ENERGY USE COME TO NINE POINT
THREE FIVE KG CO2 PER SQUARE
METER THREE DEEP WILL HAVE TWO
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
OF VEGETATED ROOF OR ONE
HUNDRED AND EIGHTY SIX SQUARE
METERS APPLYING THE WUXI
GROUP'S FIGURES, THIS RULE
SHOULD PREVENT ABOUT TWO TONS
OF CO2 EMISSIONS ANNUALLY.
>> NOW I CALCULATE THE HEATING
THREE FORTY PEOPLE WITH GAS
WILL GENERATE SIXTY FOUR TONNES
ANNUAL CO2 EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS
WITHOUT THE GREEN ROOF THAT'S
BASED ON THE AVERAGE MICHIGAN
CONSUMPTION FIGURES FROM THE
AMERICAN GAS ASSOCIATION AND
EIA FIGURES FOR THE RETAIL THE
GREEN ROOF WILL ONLY ONLY
REDUCE THE SIXTY FOUR TON CO2
BY TWO TONNES OR THREE PERCENT
TO GET IT THE OTHER NINETY
SEVEN PERCENT.
THIS BUILDING REALLY HAS TO GO
ALL ELECTRIC AND WELL MR.
HIRSCH IN JANUARY 14TH LETTER
TO THE CITY WROTE QUOTE THE
OWNER PROJECT ARCHITECT AND MEP
TEAM CONTINUE TO REVIEW THIS
OPPORTUNITY FOR THIS PROJECT.
HOWEVER, THEY ARE NOT ABLE TO
FULLY COMMIT TO AN ELECTRIC
ENERGY ONLY PROJECT AND QUOTE
STILL ON THE TABLE BUT DON'T
ACCEPT ANOTHER IT'S TOO EARLY
TO DECIDE DEFLECTION IN YOUR
PACKET OF THE NOTES FROM THE
CITIZEN PARTICIPATION MEETING
ON OCTOBER SEVEN WHERE
ARCHITECT WEINTRAUB SAID QUOTE
WE ARE INVESTIGATING AN ALL
ELECTRIC BUILDING IN THAT WAS
EIGHT MONTHS AGO.
>> HOW MUCH MORE TIME DO THEY
NEED?
>> AGAIN, THE CLIMATE DOES NOT
RESPOND TO GOOD INTENTIONS
SYMBOLIC GESTURES.
IT ONLY RESPONDS TO THE HARD
REALITY OF THE PHYSICS.
THE GREEN ROOF IS GREAT BUT IT
DOESN'T MAKE THREE FORTY DPO
SUSTAINABLE OR MAKE IT CONFORM
TO EIGHT TO ZERO IF THE
PETITIONER DOESN'T KNOW HOW TO
GO ALL ELECTRIC THEY SHOULD
TALK TO TOBIAS OBJECTION
DEARBORNE PARTNERS OR ARCHITECT
JOHN MAJEWSKI A TEAM PUTTING UP
TO 11 TO 11 PACARD THE
PETITIONER SHOULD COMMIT
TONIGHT TO A FULLY ELECTRIC
BUILDING USING FISSION HEAT
PUMP SYSTEM IF NOT EFFICACY.
NO ON THE MOTION GRANTS WOULD
BE CITY CODE CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
SECTION FIVE TWENTY NINE TEN
PARAGRAPH THREE B THE
DEVELOPMENT COMPLY WITH ALL
LOCAL STANDARDS IN THIS CASE
STRATEGY TO ACTION ONE OF THE
ZERO PLAN ADOPTED BY COUNCIL IN
TWENTY TWENTY.
THANK YOU MR. LEONARD.
IS THERE ANYONE WHO'S JOINED
REMOTELY INDICATING AN INTEREST
IN SPEAKING AND AGAIN IF YOU'VE
JOINED YOU CAN PRESS STAR NINE
TO RAISE YOUR HAND OR USE THE
RAISED HAND BUTTON WHICH IS IN
THE BOTTOM OF YOUR SCREEN.
>> UM, NOBODY INDICATING A
DESIRE TO SPEAK.
I DO KNOW I WOULD LIKE TO NOTE
THOUGH THAT I DID FORWARD A
COMMUNICATION JUST A FEW
MOMENTS AGO THAT WE DID RECEIVE
EARLIER IN THE DAY ON THIS
APPLICATION THAT WILL BE
ADMITTED TO YOUR PACKET IF YOU
HAVEN'T HAD A CHANCE, I'D
ADVISE MAKE SURE YOU SKIP THAT
AS WELL.
>> VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
SEEING NO ONE ELSE, I'LL CLOSE
THE PUBLIC HEARING AND I WILL
READ THE MOTION THE ANN HARBOR
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVE THE THREE
FORTY PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
ZONING DISTRICT AND
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS AND
THE PUTTEES PLAN WITH THE
FOLLOWING CONDITION THE
ADDITIONAL FOUR FEET OF RIGHT
OF WAY REFERENCED IN L THIRTY
NINE SEVENTY EIGHT P. EIGHT TEN
IS AN EASEMENT FOR PUBLIC RIGHT
OF WAY IS VACATED BY CITY
COUNCIL PRIOR TO ISSUANCE
OF BUILDING PERMITS.
>> CAN I HAVE A COMMISSIONER
MOVE THAT MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
SILVER SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
RANDALL WHO WANTS TO KICK OFF
DISCUSSION OR QUESTIONS.
NO ONE DOES COMMISSIONER GET
BRANDL I GUESS I WOULD JUST
LIKE THE PETITIONER TO RESPOND
TO WHAT THE PUBLIC COMMENT THAT
WE GOT FROM MR. GARBER
ESPECIALLY IN REGARDS TO KIND
OF QUOTES FROM THE PAST ABOUT
EXPLORE ELECTRIFICATION AS A
POSSIBILITY AND WHERE THE TEAM
IS NOW AFTER THE EIGHT MONTHS
TIME I CAN SPEAK TO THAT
BRIEFLY.
>> B THE OWNER HAS BEEN
RELUCTANT TO PURSUE ANY FURTHER
ENGINEERING ON THE PROJECT DUE
TO THE FACT HE WAS UNCERTAIN AS
TO HOW HOW THESE INITIAL
HEARINGS WOULD GO.
SO WE SPENT THE TIME RESHAPING
THE PROPERTY TO INCORPORATE A
LOT OF THE THINGS WE HEARD
OUTSIDE OF THE SCOPE THAT WOULD
INVOLVE ENGINEERING WHICH WOULD
GIVE US THOSE RESULTS.
I KNOW IT'S NOT THE ANSWER YOU
GUYS WANT TO HEAR BUT IT HASN'T
GONE AWAY.
IT'S JUST SOMETHING WE HAVEN'T
STARTED TO LOOK AT THOROUGHLY
WITH WITH COSTS AND EVERYTHING
BECAUSE WE THE OWNER WANTED
SOME GUARANTEES BEFORE HE TOOK
ON THE THE EXTRA COSTS
OF PURSUING THAT STEP
.
OTHER COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS
PEOPLE ARE QUIET TONIGHT.
>> GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER
.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF PEOPLE HAVE
READ THE THE EMAIL THAT JUST
CAME THROUGH REGARDING THE
GARNETT'S THE DETRIMENTAL
IMPACT TO VIEWS NOISE ETC. DO
WE HAVE SOMEBODY I COULD SPEAK
TO THE ACCURACY OF THEIR
CONCERNS ABOUT CORRECTING
PUBLIC RECORD AND ALSO ITS
IMPACTS TO THE GARNETTE WHETHER
THAT'S TO STAFF OR TO THE
PETITIONER?
I'M NOT SURE WHO THAT QUESTION
GOES TO TO START WITH MR.
KOWALSKI, I THINK HE RECEIVED
THAT CORRESPONDENCE EARLIER
TODAY BUT I WILL START WITH
THAT.
I THINK ONE OF THE COMMENT WAS
ABOUT WAS CONCLUDING
DETRIMENTAL AND YOU KNOW, TO BE
CLEAR, I THINK THAT I THINK
THAT IS AN INTERPRETATION
RATHER THAN A DEFINED
CODE MANNER.
BUT I WOULD NOTE THAT ONE
OF THE SPECIFIC PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT MODIFICATIONS THAT
IS BEING PROPOSED HERE IS A
REDUCTION OF THE CONFLICTING
LAND USE BUFFER WHICH WOULD
PROVIDE A LITTLE BIT MORE
SEPARATION.
HOWEVER, IN BOTH CASES OF THE
BUILDING THAT'S UNDER
CONSTRUCTION NOW AND THIS ONE
IS OBVIOUSLY AN INTENSIFICATION
OF DEVELOPMENT OF THAT AREA
OF THE ACTUALLY A LOT MORE
INFORMATION.
I DID DISCUSS THIS WITH THE
PETITIONER EARLIER SO I WOULD
ASK IF THE IF EITHER MR. DAMS
OR CHAMBERS WOULD WANT TO
RESPOND TO THAT AS WELL YET SO
WE TALKED ABOUT THIS EMAIL IS
MATT MENTIONED THE WHAT WE CAN
ASSESSES AS I NOTED IN THE
PRESENTATION THE SECOND UNIT ON
THE WEST SIDE OF THE BUILDING
GREW BY ABOUT 200 SQUARE FEET
AND IT GREW TOWARDS THE SOUTH
PROPERTY PREVIOUSLY AS I KIND
OF NOTED THAT WHERE WE HAD THAT
RECESS IN THE MIDDLE IT WENT
STRAIGHT ACROSS WITH JUST A
SMALL BUMP AND SO IT KIND
OF CAME ABOUT SIX FEET CLOSER
BY ALIGNING ITSELF WITH THE
WITH THE LOWER LEVEL BUILDING
DEFINED IT DEFINES THE PARKING
I BELIEVE THAT'S WHAT THEY'RE
REFERENCING BECAUSE FORMALLY
THAT WAS OUT THERE AND THE
WHERE THE THE POINT AT WHICH WE
MET THE S PROPERTY LINE FROM
WHAT WE COULD TELL FROM THE
GARDEN PLANS WAS GOING TO ALIGN
MOSTLY WITH THEIR ELEVATOR CORE
AND STAIR OR THEIR STAIR FOR
THAT ALSO ABOVE THE PROPERTY
LINE ON THAT SIDE.
>> SO THE PUDI THAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT WOULD MAKE IT
CLOSER BASICALLY BY ELIMINATING
THAT CONFLICTING LAND USE
BUFFER.
UNDERSTOOD.
I MEAN IT'S I THINK THAT
HAPPENS WITH DENSIFICATION
FRANKLY THAT THAT AT LEAST IN
MY VIEWPOINT.
SO I'M I CERTAINLY DO
UNDERSTAND OVERALL LET ME TALK
BROADLY AND GENERALLY I THINK
THEY THEY LISTEN TO THE
COMMENTS THAT WE HAD WHEN THIS
CAME TO US LAST ABOUT THE
ORIENTATION OF THE SITE, THE
REMOVAL OF PARKING AS WELL AS
THE ACTIVATION OF THE SIDEWALK
THROUGH PUTTING RETAIL KIND
OF FORWARD.
SO TO THAT TO THAT EFFECT I
APPLAUD THE ARCHITECTS AND
RIHAM THINKING THE ORIENTATION
OF THE SITE AND I DO THINK THAT
THIS LOOKS OVERALL PRETTY GOOD
AND TO BE RESPONSE TO THE
CONCERNS THAT WE HAD LAST TIME
THAT BEING THAT I UNDERSTAND
THE COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH
PULLING A MECHANICAL ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERING DRAWINGS SAID
RELATIVE TO SCHEMATIC DESIGN.
HOWEVER, OBVIOUSLY THIS ISN'T
EXACTLY NEW WHEN WE TALK ABOUT
THIS LITERALLY EVERY MEETING.
SO I GUESS FORGIVE ME FOR
SAYING IT IS SOMEWHAT STILL I
DON'T KNOW IF THIS APPOINTMENT
IS THE RIGHT WORD BUT IT'S TO
HAVE A MORE ROBUST SUBSTANTIVE
ANSWER AND ENGAGEMENT WITH THAT
QUESTION WOULD HAVE BEEN
PREFERABLE.
BUT THAT BEING SAID I OVERALL
STEPPING BACK THANK YOU FOR
ADDRESSING THAT AGAIN.
DETRIMENTAL I THINK IS KIND
OF A BIG WORD.
I MEAN I THINK IT'S A KIND OF A
SALIENT WORD FOR SOMEBODY
THAT'S EVALUATING THE PURCHASE
OF A CONDO IN THE GARNETTE.
IT AS FAR AS NOISE MITIGATION
HOPEFULLY THAT THEY CAN
MINIMIZE THE IMPACTS ON THE
NEARBY USERS BUT OVERALL THE
ACTIVATION FROM PEOPLE
TRAVELING BY TRAIN.
AND ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I
THOUGHT OF AS YOU KNOW, BASED
ON UTILIZATION, LET'S TRY TO
ADVOCATE FOR KIND OF A
CROSSWALK SO THAT PEOPLE THE
EASY WAY TO CROSS.
BUT ASIDE FROM THAT, I DO
APPRECIATE THE PETITIONER
LISTENING TO WHAT WE HAD TO SAY
AND THEN REORIENTING THE SITE
IN THAT REGARD.
SO I THINK I'LL LEAVE IT THERE
FOR NOW AND THE REST OF MY
TIME.
>> THANKS.
>> OTHER COMMENTS,
COMMISSIONER, WHICH I JUST WANT
TO ECHO COMMISSIONER LEE, I
THINK YOU ACTUALLY SAID
EVERYTHING I WAS GOING TO SAY
SO I'LL JUST HIGHLIGHTED AGAIN
WHICH IS I REALLY APPRECIATE
THE PETITIONER TAKING INTO
CONSIDERATION THE COMMENTS
OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND
THE ACTIVATION OF THE FIRST
LEVEL CREATION OF THAT PATIO AS
WELL AS THE ELIMINATION OF THE
PARKING SPOTS, THE ONLY OTHER
CONCERN I HAVE IS THE SAME
CONCERN THAT MR. GARBER SHARED
DURING HIS PUBLIC COMMENTS WAS
JUST SORT OF RENEWABLE ENERGY
USES FOR THE BUILDING AND I
THINK THE PETITIONER HAS RESPON
ON IT.
IT'S NOT A LOT I'LL JUST LEAVE
IT AT THAT THEY'VE RESPONDED.
BUT I DID WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE
MY ADDITIONAL APPRECIATION
OF ALL OF THE CHANGES TO THE
SITE PLAN THE PD FROM OUR FIRST
PRESENTATION I I'LL SECOND
THIRD THAT AND SAY THAT I AM I
LOOK FORWARD TO THIS COMING TO
FRUITION.
I'LL BE EVEN MORE EXCITED IF IN
YOUR MECHANICALS YOU'RE ABLE TO
ADVANCE THOSE PLANS ARE
DEVELOPED.
IT IS AN ALL ELECTRIC BUILDING.
I THINK THAT WOULD BE FANTASTIC
.
I TYPICALLY WHEN WE'RE BECAUSE
I'M A NERD AND LIKE TO LOOK AT
THE CODE I THINK THROUGH WHAT
ARE WE SEEING THAT IN THE
PICTURES THAT THE PD DOESN'T
NECESSARILY CAPTURE THE
REGULATION DON'T NECESSARILY
CAPTURE AND I THINK ACTUALLY
THIS HEWS VERY CLOSELY TO WHAT
MORE WHAT A SITE PLAN INCLUDES
MY SENSE AND IS IN IN TERMS
OF IT'S VERY CLEAR THAT THERE
SHALL NOT BE MORE THAN SIX
VEHICLE PARKING SPOTS LIKE
THOSE ARE THE KIND OF THINGS
THAT I THINK ABOUT IT'S VERY
CLEAR THAT THEY NEED TO HAVE AT
LEAST A CLASS OF BIKES AND FOUR
CLASS BIKES.
>> THAT'S THE EV PARKING IS IN
HERE.
WHAT'S THE CURRENT FLOOR AREA
IN IN THE REGULATIONS IT'S
EIGHT THOUSAND SQUARE FEET.
WHAT IS PROPOSED, MR. KOWALSKI
OR THE PETITION OR DO YOU KNOW
IT'S ROUGHLY SEVEN THOUSAND I
HAVE THE EXACT NUMBER SEVEN
THOUSAND EIGHT HUNDRED THIRTY
SECOND FLOOR 730.
>> OK, SO WHAT WE DID WE DID
MAKTAB EIGHT THOUSAND A LITTLE
BIT OF WIGGLE ROOM THERE AND I
THINK THAT'S GREAT AND I WAS
GOING TO SAY LIKE THERE IS NO
HEIGHT LIMIT HERE.
I MEAN PRACTICALLY SPEAKING
LIKE YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE A
HEIGHT LIMIT.
I MEAN I I WOULD ACTUALLY IN
SOME IS BE OK WITH ADDITIONAL
FLEXIBILITY.
WE I THINK WE TALKED LAST TIME
ABOUT ADDING ON THE POTENTIAL
TO ADD ON ANOTHER STORY BUT NOT
ASKING FOR REDESIGN BY ANY
MEANS BUT ALLOWING FOR THAT
FLEXIBILITY.
I JUST WANT TO NOTE THAT THAT'S
PROBABLY NOT IN HERE HIGHLIGHT
THAT FOR OTHER PEOPLE IN TERMS
OF LET'S I THINK MR. KOWALSKI,
THANK YOU FOR NOTING THAT THE
THE THE PUDI REGS REQUIRE SOME
KIND REQUIRE OFFICE OR RETAIL
ON THE FIRST FLOOR.
BUT I THINK I WANT TO HIGHLIGHT
THAT THERE IS SOME FLEXIBILITY.
>> IT COULD ALL BE RETAIL, IT
COULD ALL BE OFFICE AND
ALLOWING FOR THAT FLEXIBILITY I
THINK IS WISE.
BUT IN CASE ANYBODY IS DEAD SET
ON HAVING A PARTY STORE OR
SOMETHING HERE LIKE OUR
COFFEE SHOP, MAYBE WE WON'T.
>> HOPEFULLY WE GET IT.
MAYBE WE WILL.
I JUST THOUGHT I WOULD
HIGHLIGHT THAT FOR MY
COLLEAGUES AND THE IN THAT I
THOUGHT WAS INTERESTING BUT IS
AMONG THE REASONS WHY PODS ARE
I THINK WHY OUR CODE SAYS THAT
THEY YOU KNOW, THEY'RE ONLY TO
BE USED IN CERTAIN
CIRCUMSTANCES.
>> ITEM G TALKS ABOUT THE
MATERIALS AND EFFECTIVELY SAID
SAYS BRYK CARSTONE METAL PLATES
GLASS THAT SHOWN ON THIS SITE
AND SO I FEEL LIKE THAT'S TYING
THEM IN TO A PARTICULAR
MATERIAL USE THAT IF THERE'S
EVER REDEVELOPMENT AGAIN LIKE
THERE'S STILL GOING TO BE HELD
TO THAT AND IT'S JUST I THINK
THAT WHAT'S IN THE PLAN IS
BEAUTIFUL AND I THINK IT'LL BE
GREAT.
>> I JUST I WAS JUST THINKING
ABOUT WHAT THIS IS NEXT AND
MAYBE YOU KNOW, MAYBE THESE
THINGS THESE THINGS ALL ARE
THINGS THAT I THINK WOULD LAST
A WHILE.
>> BUT ANYWAY THAT JUST STRUCK
ME OVERALL AGAIN I'M I'M
COMFORTABLE IN ESTABLISHING A
PD DISTRICT WITH WITH THESE
CRITERIA.
I DON'T I THINK THAT WHAT WE'RE
SEEING IS LIKELY WHAT WE'LL GET
AND I WOULD JUST SAY LIKE I
WOULD EVEN BE COMFORTABLE
OFFERING ADDITIONAL FLEXIBILITY
FOR THE FUTURE BUT I WOULD
IMAGINE THAT THAT'S ALSO GOING
TO RUN INTO IMPLICATIONS WITH
NEIGHBORS AS WELL.
>> SO
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS, I
SAW YOUR HAND MAYBE BEFORE I
STARTED TALKING JUST AS I
STARTED TALKING.
OH, I SEE MR. KOWALSKI'S HAND
UP.
SORRY.
GO AHEAD.
I'M SORRY TO INTERRUPT BUT I
DID WANT TO ADD A
CLARIFICATION, SOMETHING THAT I
THAT I MENTIONED MENTIONED
EARLIER IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO
THE FLOOR AREA IN CONVERSATIONS
THIS COME UP A COUPLE OF MONTHS
AGO OR SO REGARDING THE
ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION THAT
THE PETITIONER WE JUST TALKED
ABOUT AGAIN TODAY WOULD LIKE TO
HAVE THE OPTION TO IF IF ENOUGH
OF IT HAS TO BE EXCAVATED OUT
TO ENABLE IT TO ADD A BASEMENT
AND WE DO KIND OF BASEMENTS AS
FLOOR AREA.
SO IN THOSE DISCUSSIONS I
WANTED TO MENTION THE PLANNING
COMMISSION THAT WE CAN I MEAN
WE CAN AS A PVA CAN WRITE IN
WITH THE MAXIMUM 8000 SQUARE
FEET NOT INCLUDING BASEMENT
FLOOR AREA OR WE COULD PUT IN
MAYBE A LIMITATION ON THE
PLANNING COMMISSION SO FELT
THAT THAT WOULD WORK IN THAT
DIRECTION OR WE COULD JUST
MAYBE THE THE MAXIMUM FOR TO
ACCOMMODATE THE BASEMENT IF
POSSIBLE.
BUT AGAIN I MEAN MAYBE I'LL ADD
A LITTLE BIT OF APATHY IN OUR
CONVERSATIONS IT'S NOT 100
PERCENT SURE BUT DEPENDING ON
THE ENVIRONMENTAL CONTAMINATION
AS I SAID WHAT NEEDS TO BE
REMOVED EXCAVATION THERE COULD
BE A BASEMENT IN THE BUILDING
SO I NEGLECTED TO MENTION THAT
EARLIER.
SO I JUST WANTED TO LEAVE THAT
AT THIS POINT IN CASE THAT HAS
INFLUENCE ANYBODY'S DISCUSSION
OR QUESTIONS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MATT FOR TOUCHING ON
THAT POINT.
THE PATIENT WOULDN'T BE ALLOWED
TO BE ABOVE 3000 SQUARE FEET
DUE TO THE FACT THAT WE WOULD
JUST CARRY ONE STARE DOWN IN
THE ELEVATOR DOWN.
THAT BEING SAID, WE DON'T WANT
TO GET INTO A SITUATION WHERE
WE'RE SUPPORTING CARS
UNDERNEATH BASEMENTS SO WE
PROBABLY WOULD ONLY ISOLATE IT
TO THE OFFICE WING PORTION
OF THE BUILDING AND I THINK
THAT'S PROBABLY AROUND TWELVE
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET I DON'T
KNOW OFF THE TOP OF MY HEAD.
BUT YEAH, GIVEN THAT WE ARE NOT
SURE HOW MUCH THE OIL HAS TO
COME OUT IF WE WERE TO GO DOWN
FOR OFF THE OWNER WOULD WOULD
BE AMENABLE TO HAVING THE
OPTION OF THAT ADDITIONAL SPACE
AVAILABLE.
>> BILLY THANK YOU SO AGAIN SO
WE'RE BACK FROM PLANNING
COMMISSION.
WE CAN WE CAN KIND OF SET THE
LIMIT AT YOUR SUGGESTION OR OR
WE CAN WORK WITH THE PETITION
AFTERWARDS BEFORE WE GET THE
COUNCIL TO KIND OF WORK OUT
WHETHER OR NOT YOU GUYS FEEL IF
IT'S IF WE WANT TO PUT A
LIMITATION ON THEIR JUST A
BASEMENT FOR AREA EXEMPT SO
THERE'S NO DISCUSSION.
>> GREAT.
I'M COOL WITH EITHER ONE EITHER
JUST OVERALL INCREASING THE
FLOOR AREA OR SAYING THAT THE
BASEMENT DOESN'T COUNT AGAIN I
THINK JUST INCREASING OVERALL
THE SQUARE FOOTAGE ALLOWED
GIVES MORE FLEXIBILITY BUT I
WELCOME OTHERS OPINIONS NOW
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS, I JUST
WANTED TO BRIEFLY ASK A FOLLOW
UP QUESTION ON THE QUESTION
OF BUILDING ELECTRIFICATION AND
MAYBE MR. ADAMS COULD SAY
WHETHER I UNDERSTAND THAT THE
ENGINEERING HAS NOT YET BEEN
COMPLETED BUT I WONDERED IF YOU
WOULD FEEL COMFORTABLE GIVING
US MORE INFORMATION ABOUT THE
INTENTION AS YOU MOVE INTO THAT
PROCESS AND WHETHER
ELECTRIFICATION IS SOMETHING
YOU PLAN TO PURSUE AND WOULD
ONLY ABANDON, YOU KNOW, UNDER
EXTREME CIRCUMSTANCES OR
WHETHER IT'S THE ICING ON THE
CAKE.
YEAH, I THINK THERE IS A FAIR
AMOUNT OF CONFIDENCE IN SYSTEMS
FOR THE RESIDENTIAL UNITS THAT
ARE ELECTRIC.
IT'S MORE OF THE RETAIL
COMPONENTS THAT IN OUR REALLY
PRELIMINARY DISCUSSIONS HAVE
LED TO WELL DOES THIS MAKE THE
SPACE LESS VIABLE TO SOMEBODY
IF THEY'RE TRYING OR TRYING TO
LEASE IT?
SO THAT'S KIND OF WHERE THE
CONVERSATIONS HAVE REALLY
STALLED BECAUSE WE HAD PURSUED
ENGINEERING AND STARTED TO LOOK
AT ANY OF THOSE INITIAL COSTS
FOR AND LIFECYCLE COST OR FOR
THE BUILDING.
OK, I THINK I'M HEARING IS THAT
THE INTENTION IS TO PURSUE
ELECTRIFICATION IF POSSIBLE.
YEAH, I DON'T THINK THE OWNER
HAS YEAH.
IF IT'S IF IT'S FINANCIALLY
FEASIBLE FOR TWO TO PURSUE IT
THEY DON'T HAVE ANY ISSUES WITH
WITH PURSUING IT.
WE JUST HAVE TO EVALUATE THESE
OTHER FACTORS STILL WITH THEM.
OK THANK YOU.
AND THEN MY OTHER QUESTION I
THINK FOR STAFF AT I HAVE NOT
HAD A CHANCE TO REALLY LOOK AT
THIS EMAIL THAT JUST CAME SO I
FEEL LIKE I'M KIND OF PLAYING A
LITTLE BIT OF CATCH UP BUT JUST
SO I UNDERSTAND THAT THE
QUESTION IS ABOUT BOTH THE
GARNETTE AND THIS BUILDING
BEING BUILT UP TO THE PROPERTY
LINE AND THE DISTANCE BETWEEN
THEM IS THAT CORRECT OR GO
AHEAD COMMERCIALLY BECAUSE I
SPOKE ABOUT THIS EARLIER IF I
COULD RESPOND DIRECTLY TO THAT.
>> SURE.
WELL, SO I DID HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY WHILE THIS
DISCUSSION WAS HAPPENING TO
TAKE A LOOK AT WHAT THEY WERE
SAYING, LOOK AT THE SECOND
FLOOR PLATE ON THE NORTH SIDE
OF THE GARNETTE AND THE UNITS
THERE HAVE A BALCONY IN THE
BEDROOM UNITS ON THE FIRST I
THINK AND SECOND FLOOR THAT ARE
BASICALLY GOING TO HAVE, YOU
KNOW, JUST A COMPLETE WALL
BUILT UP RIGHT TO SO WHAT THEY
WERE SAYING IS THAT OVERALL THE
DEVELOPMENT SEEMS TO BE GOOD
FOR THE CITY BUT IT IS NOT
ACCURATE TO CALL IT WITH NO
DETRIMENTAL IMPACT TO THE
ADJACENT PROPERTY OR
NEIGHBORING OWNERS.
SO SO I DO WANT TO EARLIER I
SAID I THINK IT'S A BY PRODUCT
DENSITY.
>> I DO WANT TO RECOGNIZE THAT
IT WOULD BE HELPFUL TO SEE KIND
OF THAT N.
S ECONOMETRIC AND OR AERIAL.
I THINK THAT THAT THE THE
PERSON WE HAD THE SECTIONAL
THAT THEY WERE ASKING FOR SO I
WAS ACTUALLY THE PETITIONER.
IS THERE ANY RESPONSE TO THE
BARNETTS NORTHERN BALCONY'S ON
THE SECOND FLOOR THAT WOULD BE
ADVERSELY IMPACTED BY THIS?
SO I THINK I CUT OUT FOR JUST A
SECOND THERE IF I IF I CAUGHT
EVERYTHING I DON'T KNOW IF I
CAN SHARE MY SHARE MY SCREEN
AGAIN THAT MIGHT BE THE EASIEST
.
>> IS THAT OK TO DO?
YEAH ABSOLUTELY.
GO FOR IT OK, JUST GET BACK TO
PAGE
BACK TO THE FLOOR PLAN
SO
WE DON'T HAVE TO GET TO THE
SAME POINT THAT MIGHT SURE
BETTER SO THIS GREEN LIGHT IS A
SLIGHT ERROR SHOULD BE OVER AT
THIS CARMELINA IN OUR STUDY
THERE WE DID HAVE FULL PLANS
OF THE GARNETTE WE JUST DO YOU
KNOW WE GATHERED THEIR
FOOTPRINT.
I THINK THE THERE'S A BEDROOM
LOCATED HERE WITH A BALCONY SO
THAT HAPPENS AT THIS RECESS.
SO I THINK THEY'RE ABOUT FIVE
FEET SET BACK FROM THE PROPERTY
LINE CURRENTLY WE WILL BE
ROUGHLY EIGHT FEET BACK.
SO THERE'S ABOUT 13 FEET
BETWEEN WHERE THAT FIRST
OPENING WILL BE AND WHERE THIS
RECESS OCCURS.
I BELIEVE THERE'S SOME OVERLAP
IN THE SECOND BALCONY IN THIS
ZONE THAT WILL NOT BE AT THAT
13 FOOT DISTANCE AND THEN THEY
STILL HAVE THEIR LARGE BALCONY
FACING WEST.
SO WE'RE NOT NECESSARILY
COVERING THAT BUT THERE IS A
SMALL WINDOW I BELIEVE IN THEIR
LIVING UNIT THAT WOULD BE A
BUDDING YOU KNOW, WHERE THIS
WALL WAS STEP BACK TO IF THAT'S
ANSWERING THE QUESTION I DO
THINK THAT SUFFICIENTLY
ANSWERED THE QUESTIONS SO THE
PUBLIC COMMENTER DANIEL
MARQUART CONCER THAT PUBLIC
RECORD SHOULD BE CORRECTED TO
REFLECT THAT THERE IS SOMEWHAT
OF A NEGATIVE IMPACT
SPECIFICALLY ON THAT UNIT.
I THINK IT'S A FAIR COMMENT ON
IT BUT AGAIN SO HOPEFULLY THAT
RESPONSE TO YOUR QUESTION AS
YOU WERE SAYING HEY, WHAT'S
WHAT'S HAPPENING HERE SO I
THINK IT'S JUST THAT NORTH WEST
UNIT WITH THE IT'S IT LOOKS
LIKE IT'S ON THE SECOND BEDROOM
UP YOU PULLED UP THE RIGHT ONE
THERE.
SARAH RIGHT THERE.
>> OH NO BURET THE RIGHT ONE.
SO OVERALL THAT'S IT STILL
DOESN'T DETRACT FROM ME FOR FOR
MY RECOMMENDATION OF OR MY
SENSE THAT THE PD SEEMS
APPROPRIATE IN THAT THE OVERALL
COMMENTS HAVE BEEN HEARD.
BUT I DO WANT TO OBVIOUSLY
RECOGNIZE THE PUBLIC COMMENTERS
POSITION THAT THERE IS GOING TO
BE SOME LEVEL OF ADVERSE IMPACT
TO THOSE TWO PARTICULAR
BALCONIES WHICH REALLY WON'T BE
VERY FUNCTIONAL AT THAT POINT
IN TIME.
>> MR. EVANS, DO YOU HAVE MORE
QUESTIONS FOR STAFF OR OK,
COMMISSIONER BRANDL?
I PERSONALLY I FEEL LIKE THAT'S
IT IT IS A DETRIMENT TO THOSE
PEOPLE BUT I THINK THAT LIKE
ANY BUILDING DOWNTOWN IF YOU
DON'T OWN IT THEN AND YOU'RE IN
THE LOWER PART OF IT, THEN IT'S
JUST IT'S PART OF CITY LIFE AND
I KNOW THAT THAT STINKS FOR THE
PEOPLE THAT HAVE THAT UNIT.
BUT ANY BUILDING THAT IS UP
AGAINST, YOU KNOW, THE ZONING
ALLOWS GREATER HEIGHT FRANKLY,
YOU KNOW, AND IT WAS THE
GARNETT'S RISK TO HAVE AN
ORIENTATION IN THAT DIRECTION
KNOWING THAT IT COULD BE BUILT
ON THIS SIDE.
SO THAT'S KIND OF HOW I FEEL
ABOUT IT THAT I'M SORRY FOR
THOSE PARTICULAR PEOPLE.
BUT I THINK THAT'S JUST THE WAY
THE COOKIE CRUMBLES WHEN YOU'RE
BUILDING IN AN URBAN
ENVIRONMENT.
AND I I GUESS I ALSO JUST WANT
TO PIGGYBACK ON THE
ELECTRIFICATION THING AGAIN
KNOWING THAT I KNOW WE ARE
LIMITED IN THIS RANGE IN TERMS
OF WHAT
WE CAN ASK FOR.
>> YOU HAD INDICATED IN THE
BEGINNING THAT THE OWNER SORT
OF WANTED SOME SENSE
OF SECURITY AND IT SEEMS BASED
ON THE CONVERSATION TONIGHT
THAT WE ARE GIVING YOU A SENSE
OF SECURITY.
AND SO I WOULD HOPE THAT IN
YOUR PURSUIT THIS AS THE
BUILDING DEVELOPS FURTHER THAT
IF THAT'S TRULY THE REASON THAT
YOU WOULD ACTUALLY EXPLORE THIS
IN AN AUTHENTIC WAY IN TERMS
OF THE REALITY OF WHAT WE'RE
DEALING WITH WITH OUR SOCIETY
SO WE CAN ONLY HOPE THAT YOU
CAN DO YOUR PART.
I GUESS IS WHAT I WOULD SAY
BECAUSE WE CAN'T ASK OF YOU BUT
WE HOPE THAT YOU WILL RISE TO
THE OCCASION TO BE ABLE TO BE A
PART OF SOLUTIONS THAT WE ARE
GRASPING AT FRANKLY AT THIS
POINT.
SO GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER SAUVé
AND THEN MR. PARK, I'LL JUST
I'LL JUST ADD A COMMENT TO THE
RESIDENTIAL USE VERSUS
RESIDENTIAL ZONING AND I THINK
THIS HAS COME UP A FEW TIMES
AND PROJECTS AND WHEN WE TALK
ABOUT RESIDENTIAL USE FOR THOSE
CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFERS,
IT'S TYPICALLY CENTRIC ZONING
PROPERTIES AND SO NOT TO ADD TO
OUR COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS, IT SEEMS LIKE THIS IS
KIND OF THE LINE WHERE
RESIDENTIAL AND BUFFERS ARE
APPROPRIATE AND WHERE THE KIND
OF URBAN CORRIDORS AND CENTERS
REALLY MAYBE DON'T HAVE THIS
BECAUSE REALLY WHAT IT'S SAYING
IS THE FIRST MOVER GETS THE
MOST LAND AND EVERYBODY ELSE
HAS TO MOVE AWAY BECAUSE OF IT
AND WHAT WE'RE SEEING HERE IS A
SMALL SITE TRYING TO UNITS TO
HAPPEN AND HAVING TO ASK FOR PD
TO MAKE ROOM FOR IT TO HAPPEN
BECAUSE THE OTHER PROPERTIES
GOT TO IT FIRST AND THEN I
DON'T I DON'T SEE THE KIND
OF EQUALITY OF DEVELOPMENT
WITHIN THAT KIND OF STANDARD.
SO I'M JUST GOING TO KIND
OF PUT THAT ON RECORD AS
SOMETHING I WOULD LIKE TO SEE
CONTINUE IN CONVERSATION WITH
THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE USE
AND ZONING EXPECTATION FOR SOME
OF OUR ORDINANCES TO THE MAX
AREA.
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO OFFER UP
INTO THE CALCULATION IF THE
PARKING IS NOT INCLUDED IN THE
OPEN AIR COVERED PATIO DOES NOT
INCLUDED THAT BOTH OF THOSE BE
INCLUDED IN POTENTIAL SQUARE
FOOTAGE AREAS AND THEY DO WANT
TO ENCLOSE THOSE FOR SECURITY
PARKING AND HAVE A BIGGER
RESTAURANT DINING ROOM FOR
THEIR 650 SQUARE FEET OR THINGS
LIKE THAT.
>> SO AGAIN, ADAPTIVE REUSE
WOULD NOT BE ANY MORE KIND
OF BUILDING FORM BUT COULD GIVE
MORE ROOM FOR SQUARE FOOTAGE IN
THE FUTURE.
SO I WOULD BE OPEN TO THAT AS
WELL.
MR. LEONARD, THANK YOU.
>> NOT.
>> I JUST WANT TO CLARIFY THE
USE OF THE WORD DETRIMENTAL WHY
YOU'RE SEEING IN THE STAFF
REPORT ONE OF THE FINDINGS FOR
THE PLANNING COMMISSION THE
CITY TO ESTABLISH A PD IS THE
CONCLUSION THAT IT IS NOT
HAVING A DETRIMENTAL IMPACT ON
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES.
AND SO I THINK I THINK
APPROPRIATELY YOU'RE YOUR
CONVERSATION HERE IN RESPONSE
TO THAT COMMENTER IS TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT WHAT IS THE
COMMISSION'S EVALUATION OF THAT
AND DOES IT RISE TO THAT LEVEL
OF .
TO WHAT EXTENT IS IT IMPACT TO
ADJACENT PROPERTIES AND WHAT
IMPACT AT WHAT POINT IS THAT
TOO EXCESSIVE WHERE IT DOES
CREATE A LEVEL A DETRIMENTAL
EFFECT?
SO I JUST WANT TO I JUST WANT
TO BE CLEAR IT GOES A LITTLE
BIT BACK TO MY COMMENT ABOUT
THE USE OF THAT TERM THAT IS
SOMEWHAT OF A TERM OF ART TO
THE COMMISSION IN THE CITY AS
TO THE IMPACT SURROUNDING
PROPERTIES.
BUT I DO WANT TO BE CLEAR THAT
IF THE COMMISSION FINDS THAT
THAT IS CLEARLY DETRIMENTAL,
THAT IS A POTENTIAL STANDARD
THAT WOULDN'T THAT WOULD NOT BE
QUALIFIED FOR THE ISSUANCE
OF OPINION OF DEVELOPMENT.
SO I JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE
THAT REMIND THE COMMISSION THE
APPLICATION AND THE PUBLIC THAT
THAT TERM IS IS INCLUDED IN OUR
REPORT AS AN EVALUATION OF THAT
STANDARD.
IT IS IT'S NOT AN ARBITRARY
TERM BY ANY STRETCH AND STAFF'S
ASSESSMENT IS THAT THIS IS NOT
DETRIMENTAL AND I THINK
PERSONALLY I WOULD CONCUR WITH
THAT ASSESSMENT.
>> I THINK WE DO NEED TO SORT
OUT THE LET THE THE FLOOR AREA
AND I THINK THAT THE I
APPRECIATE COMMISSIONERS AS
ALWAYS YOUR COMMENT ABOUT IT.
I ASSUME RIGHT NOW THE PARKING
AREA IS NOT INCLUDED IN THE
FLOOR AREA.
CORRECT.
SO IF THEY REALIZED THAT NOBODY
WANTED TO BRING THEIR CAR THERE
AND THAT THEY WANTED TO EXPAND
THE OFFICES THEY COULDN'T OR
THE RETAILERS THEY COULDN'T
RIGHT NOW WHICH I I WANT TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE GIVE THE
BUFFER FOR THAT TO HAPPEN IN
THE FUTURE.
AND SO IN MY MIND IF THAT IS
THE SIXTY FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET LIKE DOUBLING THAT IT'S A
TWO FLOOR BUILDING, A TWO
STOREY BUILDING PLUS THERE'S
THAT THIRD ACCESS TO THE PATIO
ON THE THIRD FLOOR.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF THAT IS
COUNTING IN FLOOR AREA THE
PENTHOUSE AREA CORRECT.
>> YEAH AND WE TALKED ABOUT
POTENTIALLY HAVING A BASEMENT.
>> I MEAN I'M NOT SURE WHAT'S
IN MY MIND THREE TIMES SIXTY
FIVE HUNDRED WITH NINETEEN
FIFTY NINETEEN THOUSAND FIVE
HUNDRED.
>> YEAH OK I WAS LIKE OK THAT
SEEMS REASONABLE TO ME LIKE TO
ALLOW FOR THAT POTENTIAL
FLEXIBILITY AGAIN THERE'S A LOT
OF OTHER THINGS CONSTRAINING
THIS SITE SO I AND AND IF WE
GET MORE UNITS SOME DAY THAT'S
NOT GOING TO HURT MY FEELINGS
AT ALL BUT I DON'T KNOW WHAT
OTHERS THINK OR STAFF THAT'S
LIKE WHAT ARE YOU GUYS THINKING
LIKE WHAT ARE THE NEGATIVE
CONSEQUENCES OF THAT.
YEAH GO AHEAD MR. KLASKY OR MR.
LEONARD'S THINKING COMMISSIONER
SALVAJE WANTS TO CHIME IN SO I
FIRST ASKED MY ARCHITECT HAT ON
AND SAY THAT WITH ONE EGRESSED
YOU CAN ONLY DO FOUR UNITS SO
THEY'D HAVE TO LIKE IF THE
PARKING WENT AWAY THEY ADDED
ANOTHER EGRESSED ADD A THIRD
WITH A FULL THIRD FLOOR
OF RESIDENTIAL IT PROBABLY IN
THE RENOVATION OF THAT CORNER
AS WELL.
SO JUST IN TERMS OF LIKE FEARS
OF THE ADDITION BUILDING
CODE REQUIREMENTS THAT YOU
GLASS THAT WOULD IMPACT MORE
OF THE CORE AS WELL.
>> SO YOU'RE NOT SO WORRIED
THAT I'M NOT SO WORRIED THAT
THIS IS GOING TO BE A SOLID
THREE STOREY BUILDING IN THE
FUTURE BECAUSE OF THE
ADDITIONAL CODE REQUIREMENTS,
STAFF REACTIONS, OTHER
COMMISSIONER REACTIONS?
I THINK AS FAR AS STAFF WE CAN
CERTAINLY AGAIN WITH ENOUGH
OTHER TYPICALLY WHAT WHAT
QUESTIONS WE WOULD LOOK FOR THE
PARKING BUT AGAIN THAT WOULD BE
FLEXIBILITY.
I WOULD HAVE TO DOUBLE CHECK TO
SEE YES.
>> WE DO HAVE NO MINIMUM OK, I
WANTED TO CHECK TO SEE MAKE
SURE I ORDERED THE PARKING
REQUIREMENTS SO THAT SO THAT
WOULD BE CORRECT.
THEY COULD FILL THAT IN I WOULD
REVIEW BUT I DON'T THINK
THERE'S ANYTHING WITHIN THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS BUT I
COULD DO THAT OFFLINE THAT
WOULD BE AFFECTED AND ANY
ADDITIONAL FLOOR AREA AND
ABSOLUTE THE I MEAN THAT WOULD
DEFINITELY INCREASE THE
FLEXIBILITY OF THE PROJECT AND
THEY ARE FAIRLY LIMITED AND
WHERE THEY CAN GO ANYWAY.
WE CAN ALSO TAP THE HYPE
DIRECTLY AGAIN, I DON'T THINK
THERE'S ANY INTENTION TO GO
HIGHER THAN THE THREE STORIES
THAT COULD BE THE LIMITING
FACTOR AS WELL IF THE
COMMISSION SUPPORTS IT'S RIGHT
NOW AND WE CAN ADD THE
ADDITIONAL FLOREA WITHIN THAT
BUILDING ENVELOPE BUT I DON'T
SEE ANY OTHER ISSUES WITH THAT.
BUT I WOULD REVIEW THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS AGAIN
JUST TO MAKE SURE.
>> MR. LEONARD, DO YOU HAVE ANY
FEEDBACK OR DO YOU WANT LIKE I
KNOW WE NEED TO HAVE A MOTION
TO AMEND WOULD YOU LIKE IT TO
BE FLEXIBLE TO SAY LIKE FIGURE
OUT THE RIGHT FLOOR AREA?
>> YEAH, I'M TRYING TO FIGURE
IT OUT.
I'M A LITTLE WORRIED ABOUT THE
MATH AT THIS POINT.
I GUESS WHAT I AM THINKING IS
WHAT I'M HEARING FROM THE
COMMISSION IS THAT THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS MIGHT BE
MODIFIED TO SAY THAT THERE'S A
MAXIMUM PARKING LOCATION OR
THAT SPACE COULD BE RE
RECLAIMER FOR AREA THE PATTY WE
COULD INCLUDE SIMILAR LANGUAGE
THE OUTDOOR PATIO COULD BE
CALCUTT COULD BE UTILIZED FOR
FLOOR AREA AND THEN I THINK
THERE WAS A REFERENCE TO
PROBABLY BECAUSE OF SOME
OF THOSE SAME BUILDING
CODE EGRESS REQUIREMENTS
PROBABLY THE MOST WE'RE GOING
TO GAIN IS IN THE BASEMENT IS
THREE THOUSAND SQUARE FEET SO
MAYBE IT IS UPPING THE MAXIMUM
SQUARE FOOTAGE BY THREE
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET AND MAKING
CLEAR THAT REGARDLESS OF THAT
LEVEL THE EXISTING PARKING AND
PATIO COULD ALSO BE CONVERTED
INTO FOUR AREA SPACE.
HOW'S THAT SOUND TO YOU, MR.
ROSKI?
>> YES, THANK YOU.
I THINK THAT WOULD BE A GOOD
IDEA.
WE COULD MAKE THOSE
CALCULATIONS AND IT STILL GIVES
THEM THAT FLEXIBILITY GOING
FORWARD.
>> SO YEAH, ABSOLUTELY.
THAT SEEMS TO BE THE CLOSEST TO
THE INTENTION OF WHAT I'M
HAVING FROM THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
I WOULD JUST I JUST WANT TO BE
HONEST THAT IN PROGRESSING IF
THIS IS APPROVED BY PLANNING
QUESTION GOES TO CITY COUNCIL
IF WE IF LIKE IN CONVERSATIONS
THE ATTORNEY'S OFFICE WE THINK
IT'S BETTER JUST TO UP THAT CAP
THEN WE WOULD PROBABLY GO
THROUGH THAT EXERCISE AND JUST
CALCULATE WHAT THOSE AREAS ARE
AND MAKE THAT ADJUSTMENT AND
THEN WE WOULD COMMUNICATE TO
THE CITY COUNCIL THAT THAT WAS
SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT FROM WHAT
WAS ADOPTED AT THIS TABLE.
THE RESULT WOULD BE THE SAME.
SO RIGHT.
ANYONE WANT TO MOVE WHAT DO YOU
DO?
HOW DO YOU WANT US TO
ARTICULATE WHAT THAT AMENDMENT
WOULD BE
?
THE MOTION WOULD BE TO MODIFY
THE SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS TO
ACCOMPLISH THE FOLLOWING ADD UP
TO THREE THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
OF ADDITIONAL FOR AREA PERIOD.
CLEARLY ALLOW ON TOP OF THAT
THE CONVERSION OF THE EXISTING
PARKING AREA INTO FOUR AREA AS
WELL AS THE OUTDOOR PATIO AND I
WOULD SAY THAT COVERED OUTDOOR
PATIO THAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
LIKE WE STILL WANT THE ONE
ALONG THE STREET BUT THE
COVERED OUTDOOR PATIO DR. PETIT
OK, THAT SOUNDS GOOD.
DOES ANYONE WANT TO MOVE THAT
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER ABRAN,
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER SAUVé
.
THAT SOUNDS GOOD TO ME.
ANY DISCUSSION OF THAT?
>> COMMISSIONER LEE?
THANK YOU.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE I
UNDERSTAND SO WE'RE TRYING TO
PROVIDE THE PETITIONER WITH THE
FLEXIBILITY TO CONVERT IN THE
SIX PARKING SPACES TO RUNNABLE
SQUARE FOOTAGE WITHIN THE PD.
IS IT APPROPRIATE FOR ME TO ASK
WHAT THE PETITIONER THINKS
SLASH FEELS ABOUT THAT?
>> I'M JUST I'D LIKE TO GET
THEIR FEEDBACK THERE.
THERE ARE STAKEHOLDER RIGHT?
>> YEAH.
I MEAN THE INTENTION IS TO GIVE
THEM MORE FLEXIBILITY.
YOU CAN BUILD EXACTLY WHAT'S
SEEN BUT YEAH, YES, YOU MAY
JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT I
WANT TO MAKE SURE I UNDERSTAND
AND I THINK I DO AND ALSO JUST
WANT TO MAKE SURE TO GET THE
FEEDBACK FROM THE PETITIONER.
WELL HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT
THAT?
>> YEAH, I THINK THE OWNER
WOULD BE VERY AMENABLE TO THAT
THAT EXACT THOSE EXACT
CONDITIONS.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
I THINK I UNDERSTAND.
CAN I JUST WANT TO CLARIFY MY
UNDERSTANDING IS THAT THIS
WOULD BE CONVERSION OF THAT
SPACE.
>> IT WOULD NOT BE ADDING AN
EQUIVALENT AMOUNT OF FLOOR.
SO THE ONLY ADDING IS THREE
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET.
I WOULDN'T PROPOSE THAT AT THIS
POINT.
MAYBE WE SHOULD GET TO THE
BASEMENT.
WE'LL JUST ABOUT AS A CAP FOR
FLEXIBILITY.
BUT THEN THE OTHER TWO THE
COVERED OUTDOOR PATIO PARKING
WOULD STRICTLY BE THOSE COULD
BE CONVERTED TO FOR
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
THINK I HAVE A CLARIFICATION
REGARDING THE BASE OF THE
BASEMENT IS INCLUDED IN FOUR
AREA.
I THINK THE PETITIONER IS
TALKING ABOUT NOT WANTING TO DO
BASEMENT UNDERNEATH THE PARKING
.
BUT IF THAT WASN'T PARKING
ANYMORE, I GUESS I'M ASKING
THAT THE EXTRA THREE THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET ALLOW FOR A FULL
BASEMENT IF THAT WAS SOMETHING
THAT WAS DECIDED IT'S NOT HIGH
ENOUGH.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE I DON'T
THINK BUT I'LL LET MR. NEVILLE
SAY THE FIRST I THINK THE FIRST
FLOOR IS ROUGHLY FIFTY NINE
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET MIGHT BE A
LITTLE OFF ON THAT.
>> SO NO, I DON'T THINK THAT WE
COULD DO A FULL THREE THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET.
WE COULD JUST MATCH THE
BUILDING FOOTPRINT WOULDN'T WE
GO DOWN?
I THINK THAT WOULD EXCEED THE
THREE THOUSAND SQUARE FEET THAT
WE CAN SERVE WITH A SINGLE
STAIR AND WE'LL HAVE TO CHECK
EGRESS DISTANCES ET CETERA.
>> IT MIGHT BE THAT UP TO A
CERTAIN LINE WE WE THE PRICING
WORKS OUT AND WE DO CONVERT
SOMETHING SLIGHTLY UNDERNEATH
THE PARKING.
I DON'T I DON'T HAVE A GREAT
ANSWER FOR THAT BECAUSE WE
HAVEN'T AGAIN WE DID STUDY IT
VERY FAR BEYOND KNOWING THAT WE
NEED TO TAKE THESE SOILS OUT
WITHOUT KNOWING HOW MUCH SOIL
NEEDS TO COME OUT EXACTLY.
SO IT'S THREE THOUSAND FOUR
OF ARBITRARY OR NO, THAT'S A
CODE THAT'S A CODE LIMITATION
FOR A SINGLE STAIR I BELIEVE
IT'S THREE THOUSAND SQUARE
FEET.
>> THANK I POINTED TO
COMMISSIONER SILVER SINCE IS A
CODE EXPERT.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
PROPOSED MOTION TO AMEND ALL WE
CAN JUST DO VOICE VOTE ALL IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE
RAISE A HAND OR SAY YES.
THAT IS ALL OF THE HANDS.
>> SO NOW WE ARE BACK TO THE
MAIN MOTION NOW AMENDED TO
INCREASE THE FLOOR AREA AND
ALLOW FOR THE CONVERSION OF THE
PARKING TO USABLE FLOOR AREA
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
MOTION.
>> ALL RIGHT.
I THINK WE'RE READY FOR A VOTE.
MR. LEONARD.
MR. LEE.
>> YES, CLERK YES.
COMMISSIONER.
YES, MR. MILLS.
>> YES.
COMMISSIONER RANDALL.
YES.
COMMISSIONER SAUVé.
MISS RAYBANS.
YES.
YES HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
MISS RAYBANS.
>> MOTION CARRIES THANK YOU
YES HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
VERY MUCH.
>> MOTION CARRIES THANK YOU
GOOD LUCK AT CITY COUNCIL.
VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
GOOD LUCK AT CITY COUNCIL.
ALL RIGHT.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
NOW WE ARE ON TO ITEM EIGHT B
ALL RIGHT.
WHICH IS THE WIZARD FIREWORK
NOW WE ARE ON TO ITEM EIGHT B
SPECIAL EXCEPTION NEWS .
WHICH IS THE WIZARD FIREWORK
MR. LEONARD IS MOVING AROUND
SPECIAL EXCEPTION NEWS .
ALL OF MR. KOWALSKI TRYING TO
MR. LEONARD IS MOVING AROUND
SEE WHO WROTE THAT THE STAFF
ALL OF MR. KOWALSKI TRYING TO
REPORT MR. CHIANG AND THEN MR.
SEE WHO WROTE THAT THE STAFF
CHAN WILL ACTUALLY BE STARTING
REPORT MR. CHIANG AND THEN MR.
THE PRESENTATION.
CHAN WILL ACTUALLY BE STARTING
OH, EXCELLENT.
THE PRESENTATION.
JUST GIVE ME ONE MOMENT
.
YES, I KNOW WHO'S WAS LEAVING
US
.
OK, CAN YOU OR ME WE CAN WRITE
GOOD EVENING PLANNING
COMMISSION AS MR. LEINERT JUST
STATED, THE PETITIONER DEFERRED
TO PLANNING STAFF TO MAKE THE
POWERPOINT PRESENTATIONS SO
I'LL MAKE A PRESENTATION AND HE
WILL BE HERE TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS YOU MAY HAVE TO ME A
SECOND WHILE I AM PULLING UP
THE POWERPOINT
.
OK, DO YOU SEE THE PRESENTATION
WE CAN IT'S NOT IN FULL SCREEN
MODE BUT WE GOT A SECOND HERE
AND WE'LL HOPEFULLY GET IT NOW
IT IS ALL RIGHT EXCELLENT.
LET'S START TO HEAR THAT.
OK THIS IS THE FIRE WIZARDS
FIREWORKS SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE
LOCATA TO BEFORE FOUR NINE WAS
STADIUM BOULEVARD ALSO KNOWN AS
WESTGATE SHOPPING MALL.
WE HAVE THE ZONING AND AERIAL
MAPS SIDE BY SIDE AS YOU CAN
SEE IT'S LOCATED AT THE
SOUTHWEST CORNER OF MAPLE AND
JACKSON ROADS.
IT IS ZONE C THREE FRINGE
COMMERCIAL AND FOR THE MOST
PART TO THE NORTH TO THE EAST
INTO THE SOUTH.
IT IS ALSO ZONE C THREE AND HAS
FOR THE MOST PART RETAIL
COMMERCIAL GAS STATION TYPE
USES AND THEN TO THE WEST ZONE
AG BUT IT IS BISECTED BY 894
AND THAT IS A CEMETERY.
THIS IS THE ART OF SURVEY.
THIS IS JUST THE NORTHERN
SECTION OF THE SITE WITH THE
PROPOSED TEMPORARY OUTDOOR
SALES WOULD OCCUR THE
PETITIONER IS PROPOSING A
THIRTY BY FIFTY FIFTEEN HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET AND THE ORANGE
RECTANGULAR AREA FACING JACKSON
ROAD.
THE SALES HOURS BEING PROPOSED
ARE FROM NINE A.M. TO NINE PM
APPROXIMATELY THREE WEEKS
BEFORE THE FOURTH OF JULY AND
THEN FIVE DAYS BEFORE THE
FOURTH OF JULY TO INCREASE
THOSE HOURS TO MIDNIGHT.
WELL THE PETITIONER IS APPLIED
FOR IS APPROXIMATELY ABOUT FIVE
WEEKS OF SALES HERE BUT IT
SHOULD BE NOTED THAT TEMPORARY
OUTDOOR SALES CAN OCCUR FOR ONE
HUNDRED AND EIGHTY DAYS AND IN
A CALENDAR YEAR.
SO IT COULD BE FOR OTHER TYPES
OF JERSEY SALES OR ANY OTHER
TYPE OF TEMPORARY OUTDOOR SALES
.
>> THE PARKING LOT SEVEN SIXTY
SEVEN PARKING SPACES AND IT
DOES HAVE A REQUIRED RANGE OF A
MINIMUM OF FIVE HUNDRED EIGHTY
NINE TO SIX HUNDRED EIGHTY NINE
SPACES SO IT WILL NOT BE TAKING
UP ANY REQUIRED PARKING SPACE.
IN FACT IT'S APPROXIMATELY TEN
SPACES AND THERE ARE BARRICADES
TO PREVENT ANY TYPE OF PARKING
OR DRIVE THROUGH TRAFFIC OR THE
OUTDOOR SALES TENT.
>> THIS IS AN AERIAL PHOTO
OF THE ENTIRE SITE.
AS YOU CAN SEE THE TENT IS ON
THE NORTHERN PORTION OF SITE.
THEY DO HAVE ACCESS POINTS TO
THE EAST AND TO THE WEST SO AND
THEY'RE NOT BEING IMPEDED
WHATSOEVER IS ALSO ON OFF
OF SALT MAPLE AND SO NO NO
TRAFFIC OR CIRCULATION ISSUES.
IT SHOULD BE NOTED FOR THOSE
HAVE BEEN AROUND EITHER
PLANNING COMMISSION OR AT THE
CITY FOR QUITE SOME TIME.
THE WIZARDS WAS ACTUALLY SET UP
TO SELF HERE IN THE OLD QUARTER
BISTRO RESTAURANT SITE AND THEY
HAD BEEN SET UP THERE FOR I
DON'T KNOW MAYBE THE PETITIONER
CAN ASK BUT I WANT TO SAY AT
LEAST TEN YEARS UNTIL IT WENT
UNDER CONSTRUCTION AND THEN
BECAUSE IT WAS THE NEW SITE AT
WEST GATE YOU HAD TO REAPPLY
FOR A TEMPORARY ECORSE SALES.
AND HERE'S A VIEW LOOKING EAST
FROM STATE PARKING LOT.
THIS IS KIND OF WHERE THE RITE
AID IS.
YOU CAN SEE IT YOU'RE LOOKING
EAST.
YOU CAN SEE KIND OF A
ZINGERMAN'S AND JACKSON ROAD
AND THE TECH IS GOING TO BE
APPROXIMATELY WHERE THE CAR IS.
THE BARRICADES WILL BE RIGHT
THERE ALSO AGAIN, HERE'S
ANOTHER VIEW JACKSON ROAD THERE
YOU CAN ALSO SEE ONE OF THE
ENTRY POINTS AT WEST GATE AND
THE VIEW FROM JACKSON AVENUE
WHICH WOULD BE KIND OF LOOKING
RIGHT WHERE THE TEMPORARY
ENTRANCE THEY'LL BE LOCATED
JUST WANTED TO ADD THAT THE
PLANNING PLANNING MAJOR FOR THE
UDC DOES HAVE AUTHORITY TO
WAIVE THE PUBLIC NOTIFICATION
WITHIN A THOUSAND FEET FOR THE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE AND FOR A
COMPLETE SITE PLAN.
SO THEY JUST SUBMITTED AN TO
SURVEY
BECAUSE NO DEVELOPMENT
THERE'S NO CHANGES TO THE SITE.
THIS IS JUST TEMPORARY OUTDOOR
SALES THAT COMPLETES MY
PRESENTATION STAFF SUPPORTS THE
PROPOSED TEMPORARY SALES AND
ITEMS AND I'M HERE TO ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS ALONG WITH THE
PETITIONER.
>> THANK YOU.
NOW OPEN THE PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE WIZARD
FIREWORKS SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
YOU APPROVAL AT TWENTY FOUR
FORTY NINE WEST STADIUM.
WELL FIRST CALL ON THOSE WHO
ARE HERE IN COUNCIL CHAMBERS
AND THEN THOSE WHO HAVE JOINED
US REMOTELY TO SPEAK.
IF YOU'VE IF YOU'RE LISTENING
BY PHONE YOU CAN PRESS STAR
NINE IF YOU HAVE IF YOU'RE
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEBLINK YOU
CAN PUSH THE RAISED HAND AND IF
YOU'RE WATCHING US RIGHT NOW
YOU CAN CALL IN AT EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND THEN ENTER OUR
MEETING ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN
SIXTY SIX THIRTY FOUR TWELVE
TWENTY SIX.
MR. LEARNER WILL SELECT THOSE
WHO HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
CALLING ON YOU BY THE LAST
THREE DIGITS OF YOUR TELEPHONE
NUMBER OR YOUR NAME ONCE
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY BACKGROUND
SOUNDS.
PLEASE ALSO STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS THERE.
>> ANYONE PRESENT HERE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO PROVIDE PUBLIC
COMMENT?
MR. GERBER THANK YOU TERMINALS.
>> I WON'T COMMENT ON THE
GREENHOUSE GAS IMPLICATIONS
OF THIS SPECIAL WORK FOR YEARS.
I DON'T THINK THERE ARE ANY AND
I HAVEN'T LOOKED AT THIS
PROPOSAL.
I WOULD JUST WANT TO POINT OUT
THAT SALES OF FIREWORKS IS A
VERY MARGINAL HAS VERY MARGINAL
OF ANY SOCIAL BENEFIT AND
BEHALF OF COMBAT VETERANS AND
ANIMALS OF ALL TYPES.
I WOULD JUST SAY THAT FIREWORKS
ARE CONSIDERED A NUISANCE AT
BEST AND A PSYCHOLOGICAL HAZARD
AT WORST.
I REALIZE THAT THEY ARE LEGAL
IN MICHIGAN BUT IF I RECALL
CORRECTLY THAT WASN'T THE CASE
UNTIL ABOUT TEN YEARS AGO WHEN
THE SNYDER ADMINISTRATION MADE
A TAX GRAB AND LEGALIZED THE
SALE OF FIREWORKS.
THESE ARE JUST SOME RANDOM
CONSIDERATIONS I DON'T FEEL
REAL STRONGLY ABOUT THIS
PARTICULAR SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USE BUT I THOUGHT I'D SPEAK UP
FOR ALL THE PEOPLE WHO HATE
FIREWORKS.
THANK YOU.
MR. LEONARD, IS THERE ANYONE
INDICATING AN INTEREST IN
SPEAKING
?
>> THERE IS NOT.
ALL RIGHT.
I'LL CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
AND DID YOU TELL ME ONCE UPON A
TIME I DIDN'T HAVE TO READ THE
WHOLE MOTION.
IT TYPICALLY READ THE WHOLE
BOOK.
>> OK, I THOUGHT WE SAID ONCE
UPON A TIME THAT FOR THE LONG
WAS OK I'LL SPEED READ THE END
OF THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
AFTER HEARING ALL INTERESTED
PERSONS AND REVIEWING ALL
RELEVANT INFORMATION FIND THE
PETITION TO SUBSTANTIALLY MEET
THE STANDARDS IN CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT TWENTY
NINE POINT FIVE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION HEREBY APPROVES THE
WIZARD FIREWORKS ENDORSEES
ITEMS SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE AT
TWENTY FOUR FORTY NINE WEST
STADIUM BOULEVARD FOR THE
TEMPORARY OUTDOOR SALES
OF FIREWORKS AND SEASONAL ITEMS
.
THIS APPROVAL IS BASED ON THE
FOLLOWING FINDINGS ONE THE
PROPOSED USE WILL BE CONSISTENT
WITH THE C3 FRINGE LOCAL
BUSINESS DISTRICT WHICH
PROVIDES FOR COMMERCIAL
ACTIVITIES INCLUDING RETAIL
ESTABLISHMENTS, OFFICES AND
PERSONAL SERVICES TO THE
PROPOSED USE WILL NOT ADVERSELY
IMPACT TRAFFIC.
PEDESTRIANS, BICYCLISTS,
CIRCULATION OR ROAD
INTERSECTIONS BASED ON THE
LOCATION JACQUES'S JACKSON
AVENUE AND SOUTH MAPLE ROAD
PROVIDES ACCESS TO THE SITE AND
THE PROPOSED USE IS CONSISTENT
WITH OTHER SURROUNDING USES
TRAFFIC IMPACT THREE THROUGH
DOCUMENTATION SUBMITTED BY THE
PETITIONER REGARDING INVENTORY
DELIVERY, SECURITY AND STAFFING
UP OF THE SALES TENT THE
TEMPORARY OUTDOOR SALES WILL BE
OPERATED IN A MANNER THAT WILL
NOT HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON
THE NEIGHBORING PROPERTIES AREA
AND WILL NOT HAVE A DETRIMENTAL
IMPACT ON NATURAL FEATURES.
>> THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE
APPROVAL IS BASED ON THE
FOLLOWING CONDITIONS ONE THAT
THE PETITIONER OBTAINING AND
MAINTAINING CERTIFICATION FROM
THE MICHIGAN LICENSING AND
REGULATORY AFFAIRS UNDER THE
MICHIGAN FIREWORKS SAFETY ACT
TWO FIFTY SIX ENFORCED BY THE
MICHIGAN DEPARTMENT OF LAW BFC
FIRE MARSHALS DIVISION.
THIS MUST BE ON DISPLAY ALONG
WITH INSURANCE AND MUST BE
COMPLIANT WITH THE RETAIL
FIREWORKS INSPECTION GUIDE FOR
TEMPORARY CFR FACILITIES AND
STANDS AND MUST BE COMPLIANT
WITH ALL APPLICABLE CODES IN
NFPA ELEVEN TWENTY FOUR TO THE
PETITIONER WILL SET UP THE
TEMPORARY SALES TENT AS SHOWN
ON THE SITE LAND SHE CP FOR AND
APPLY FOR A ZONING COMPLIANCE
PERMIT FOR EACH SALES EVENT.
THREE THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION YOU
MAY NOT EXCEED SIXTEEN HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET AND IS LIMITED TO A
MAXIMUM OF A MAXIMUM ONE
HUNDRED AND EIGHTY DAYS PER
CALENDAR YEAR FOR THE
PETITIONER WILL MAINTAIN THE
OPERATING HOURS OF NINE A.M. TO
NINE PM MONDAY THROUGH SUNDAY
AND EXTENDED UNTIL MIDNIGHT
FIVE DAYS BEFORE FOURTH OF JULY
AND THAT THE ANIBA PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVES THE
ATTACHED SITE PLAN WHICH
DEMONSTRATES COMPLIANCE WITH
THE APPLICABLE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION NEW STANDARDS AS NO
PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE
PROPERTY IS PROPOSED.
>> CAN I HAVE A COMMISSIONER
MOVE THAT MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
SILVER SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
LEE DISCUSSION OR QUESTIONS
COMMISSIONER EVANS, AM I RIGHT
IN UNDERSTANDING THAT THIS
APPROVAL IS IN PERPETUITY?
IT'S NOT JUST FOR US ONE TIME
FIVE WEEK TIME PERIOD.
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
AS LONG AS THE PETITIONER
CONTINUES TO SUBMIT FOR ZONING
COMPLIANCE PERMITS WHEN THERE
ARE TEMPORARY OUR SALES IT
WOULD BE IN PERPETUITY AND
LIMIT BUT ALWAYS LIMITED TO ONE
HUNDRED AND EIGHTY DAYS PER
CALENDAR YEAR IN PERPETUITY.
CORRECT.
THANK YOU.
OTHER QUESTIONS COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
>> I HAD THAT SAME QUESTION AND
THEN ADDITIONALLY SO EVERYTHING
WE'VE BEEN TALKING ABOUT HAS
REALLY BEEN AROUND FIREWORKS
BUT IT SAYS RECURRING SALES
OF FIREWORKS, NOVELTIES,
JERSEYS AND OTHER SEASONAL
OBJECTS.
I MEAN THAT THAT'S A PRETTY
WIDE RANGE.
>> UM, I MEAN I DON'T KNOW I
GUESS I JUST WANT TO WHAT WE'RE
APPROVING THE SALES UP BUT
MAYBE THAT'S NOT OUR PURVIEW
AND I SHOULDN'T GO AS FAR AS
FROM THE STAFF PERSPECTIVE.
WE WANTED TO GIVE FLEXIBILITY.
YOU KNOW, IF THE PETITIONER
WERE TO COME BACK IN AND LET'S
SAY HEY, THE RED WINGS OF THE
PISTONS OR THE LIONS MAYBE HAVE
A GOOD YEAR, THEY WANT TO SELL
THE SEASONAL MAYBE CHRISTMAS
TREES.
WE WANT TO JUST INCORPORATE THE
THINGS THAT THEY COULD ALSO
SELL THERE BESIDES JUST
FIREWORKS IS ONE HUNDRED AND
EIGHTY DAYS LIKE CONSECUTIVE OR
COULD THEY COULD BE SPLIT UP
LIKE IF THEY ONLY SOLD THINGS
FOR FIVE WEEKS FIREWORKS THAT'S
ONLY WHATEVER FOR THIRTY FIVE
DAYS.
>> SO DID THEY GET AN
ADDITIONAL ONE HUNDRED AND
FORTY FIVE DAYS THAT THEY WOULD
HAVE TO GO TO THE MAXIMUM LIMIT
ABOUT TO COME BACK AND GET
ANOTHER.
>> YES.
COMPLIANCE PERMIT BUT YES AS
LONG AS THEY WOULD ONLY BE THEY
WOULD BE LIMITED TO A TOTAL
OF ONE HUNDRED AND EIGHTY SALES
TEMPORARY UP OR SALES DAYS PER
YEAR BUT TO BE CLEAR IT DOES
NOT HAVE TO BE CONSECUTIVE.
RIGHT.
THAT'S CORRECT.
OK, THANK YOU COMMISSIONER.
>> JUST A QUESTION FOR STAFF.
UM, TRYING TO THINK OF HOW TO
AVERT THIS THE BEST WAY.
WHY YEAH WELL WHY IS CAPITALISM
UM THE I THINK THE QUESTION IS
THE CONCERN I HAVE IS WHAT
COMMISSIONER ABRAHAM STARTED
WITH WHICH IS THAT THIS IS A
PERPETUAL LICENSE AND THE
REASON WHY IT'S BEFORE US IS
BECAUSE THE SPACE THEY OCCUPIED
IS NO LONGER PRESIDENT.
>> SO THEY'RE APPLYING FOR A
NEW SPACE.
SO THAT'S WHY IT'S HERE AND I
THINK MY QUESTION IS IS THERE
SOME WAY FOR US TO DO THIS ON
AN ANNUAL BASIS OR A FIVE YEAR
STRETCH AS OPPOSED TO A
PERPETUAL OR OR MAYBE A
QUESTION IS HOW WOULD A
PLANNING COMMISSION REVOKE THIS
IF THERE WAS SOME DESIRE TO SEE
THIS IF IT'S A PERPETUAL
LICENSE, IS THERE A WAY TO DO
THAT?
>> SO AND THESE ARE JUST IT'S
JUST THE QUESTIONS IN MY HEAD
ARE SURE TO TAKE A STEP FURTHER
STEP FURTHER BACK.
BUT OVER THE LAST FIVE OR SIX
YEARS WE HAVE MODIFIED OUR
OUTDOOR SALES REGULATIONS AND
THE ORDINANCE HAS ALWAYS HELD
LONGER TERM SOUNDS CRAZY LONGER
TERM TEMPORARY SALES TO A
HIGHER STANDARD THAN SHORTER
TERM TEMPORARY SALES.
>> SO WE PROVIDE, FOR EXAMPLE,
SOME VERY SHORT TERM I MR. CHEN
CAN CORRECT ME LIKE TEN DAYS OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT WITH JUST A
ZONING COMPLIANCE PERMIT.
>> BUT WHEN YOU WANT TO OCCUPY
SORT OF AD AND OUTDOOR SALES
AREA AND POTENTIALLY GO LONGER
THAN THAT LIMITED PERIOD,
THAT'S WHERE THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE.
AND THEN ONCE THAT HAPPENS, AS
YOU SAW WE WANTED WE THOUGHT IT
MADE SENSE TO NOT LIMIT THIS
STRICTLY TO FIREWORKS.
YOU SEE A LOT OF LANGUAGE
BECAUSE FIREWORKS BRING
ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
BUT GIVEN THAT COST WE THOUGHT
LET'S MAKE SURE IT'S CLEAR THAT
OTHER THINGS COULD HAPPEN.
>> IT IS POSSIBLE TO ADD A TERM
OR LIMIT.
I WOULDN'T ADVISE BECAUSE
ULTIMATELY THE CITY IS MAKING A
DETERMINATION THAT THE
STANDARDS AND CRITERIA FOR
OPERATING THIS USE OF THIS
LOCATION ARE APPROPRIATE AND
WHY WOULD THAT CHANGE TWO OR
FIVE YEARS FROM NOW?
SO WE ARE MAKING THAT
DETERMINATION AND LIKE MIRANDA
CENTER FOR EXAMPLE, THIS GOES
WITH THE LAND SO IF WE WANTED
TO CREATE IT THROUGH MORE
OF ONGOING OR MORE REGULAR
CRITERIA, I WOULD SUGGEST WE
LOOK AT OUR ORDINANCE AND JUST
LOOK AT WAYS TO JUST DO IT
THROUGH A ZONING COMPLIANCE
PERIOD WHERE WE COULD DO IT ON
A MORE REGULAR BASIS RATHER
THAN MAKING THAT DECLARATION
AND FINDINGS
FROM A LAND USE
PERSPECTIVE.
SO HELP AND MAYBE TO LEAVE SOME
OF THE CONCERNS, COMMISSIONER,
WHICH THEY DO HAVE TO GET A
ZONING COMPLIANCE PERMIT WHEN
THEY ARE COMING IN FOR THE
TEMPORARY SALES AND BECAUSE
THAT IS GREATER THAN 400 SQUARE
FEET THEY'VE APPLIED FOR A
BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE TENT.
SO IF THERE WERE SAFETY
VIOLATIONS OR CONCERNS WE COULD
EITHER ONE START ENFORCEMENT OR
MAY NOT BE ABLE TO REISSUE ANY
TYPE OF PERMITS THAT WOULD
ALLOW THE SALES OUT THERE.
YEAH, SO I MISS THAT.
SO IF THEY DIDN'T COMPLY WITH
THE STANDARDS THEN THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION COULD BE REVOKED OR
IF THE USE WASN'T ESTABLISHED
AND MAINTAINED OVER TIME I
THINK IT'S A THAT'S A THREE
YEAR PERIOD TO ESTABLISH IT.
IT IS A ONE YEAR PERIOD TO
SEIZE THE USE.
>> BUT I WILL SAY THAT THAT CAN
BE DONE.
IT'S NOT NECESSARILY SOMETIMES
THE STANDARD IS YOU HAVE TO
PROVE THAT THERE IS AN
INTENTION NOT TO DO IT.
IT JUST DIDN'T OCCUR.
SO AS AN EXAMPLE, SOMETIMES YOU
SAY YOU HAD AN ILLEGAL DUPLEX
AND YOU DIDN'T RENT IT.
THAT'S DIFFERENT THAN YOU
RENOVATED IT BACK TO A SINGLE
FAMILY HOME.
SO SO THE USERS DISCONTINUED IT
MIGHT BE REVOKED OR IT DOESN'T
MEET THE CONDITIONS.
>> SO I'M SORRY I MISSED THAT
PRESSURE.
>> GO AHEAD.
IS THERE A WAY FOR YOU, MR.
LEINERT TO JUST NOTE THIS IN
YOUR EVER GROWING LIST OF NOTES
FOR US TO TO TALK ABOUT BECAUSE
IT SOUNDS LIKE IN ORDER TO
CHANGE US WE'D HAVE TO MAKE A
ORDOÑEZ CHANGE AND THAT IS THAT
THE APPROPRIATE CONVERSATION
FOR THIS PERIOD?
BUT I APPRECIATE COMMISSIONER
ABRAMS BRINGING US UP TO GET US
STARTED.
>> ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS
QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS?
COMMISSIONER SAUVé, WHERE THIS
USED TO BE WE GOT NEW
DEVELOPMENT MAYBE WILL HAPPEN
AGAIN TWO SO I'LL SUPPORT THIS.
BUT I THINK IT'S GREAT FOR YOUR
FRIEND IN A POTENTIALLY NEW
ZONING DISTRICT.
SO I THINK THIS IS A GREAT I
WOULD JUST SAY IT'S GREAT JUST
TO EVEN CLOSE DOWN SOME OF THE
TRAFFIC AND PARKING TO FIGURE
OUT NEW PATTERNS WITHIN THIS
REALLY LARGE PARKING BLOCK AS
WELL.
SO I'M NOT THINKING ABOUT
WHAT'S IN THE TENT BUT WHAT THE
TENT CAN PROVIDE FOR NEW
SITUATIONAL PLANNING FOR THE
AREA COULD BE GREAT.
I'M CURIOUS IF STAFF CAN RACK
THEIR BRAIN IF THERE WOULD BE
WE HAVE A LOT OF CONDITIONS
BECAUSE OF THIS PARTICULAR KIND
OF TEMPORARY SALES USE.
>> IS THERE ANYTHING ELSE ANY
OTHER SEASONAL SALES THAT HAVE
SPECIAL CONDITIONS THAT WE
WOULD TYPICALLY APPLY THAT YOU
WOULD WANT TO PUT ON HERE?
>> DO YOU UNDERSTAND WHAT I'M
SAYING?
YOU'RE ALLOWING FOR THAT
FLEXIBILITY.
I JUST WANT TO SEE LIKE THIS IS
CLEARLY A SPECIAL REGULATIONS
BUT IT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
>> THE ONLY THING THAT'S COMING
TO MIND FOR ME IS IT'S NOT
QUITE OUTDOOR SALES BUT I'M
THINKING ABOUT IN THE PAST
THERE HAS BEEN SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USES FOR TEMPORARY
CELLULAR TOWERS ASSOCIATED WITH
FOOTBALL GAMES AND OFTEN THERE
ARE REGULATIONS ABOUT THE
CORRESPONDING OPERATION OF A
GENERATOR ASSOCIATED WITH THAT
.
>> SO I DON'T ANTICIPATE THAT
WOULD BE NECESSARY FOR THIS BUT
THAT COULD BE A CONDITION THAT
WHATEVER SALES HAPPEN THAT IT'S
CLEAR THAT WE DON'T WANT LIKE
DIESEL GENERATOR RUNNING FOR
LONG PERIODS OF TIME IN A
PARKING LOT IT SEEMS LIKE A
STRETCH FOR ANY SALES THAT YOU
WOULD NEED THAT.
BUT THAT'S THE ONLY TEMPORARY
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE CONDITION
THAT COMES TO MIND.
MR. MR. CHENEY, DOES ANYTHING
COME TO YOUR I'M RACKING MY
BRAINS TO THINK OF ANY OTHER
TYPE OF TEMPORARY OR SALES THAT
IS SALES WE GET ARE LIKE
APPAREL SOMETIMES PLANTS,
HOLIDAY TREES, CHRISTMAS TREES
.
THIS IS A QUESTION FOR THE
PETITIONER THEN BECAUSE I WAS
THINKING ABOUT LIKE OFTEN IN
CHRISTMAS TREE LIGHTS THERE ARE
LIGHTS.
HOW IS DOES THE PETITION OR NO.
WELL FIRST FOR FIREWORK SALES
DO YOU ANTICIPATE HAVING ANY
ELECTRICITY AND HOW ARE YOU
ACCESS THAT.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU HAVE LIKE
LIGHTS INSIDE THE TENTS FOR
NINE O'CLOCK I'M IN THE
SUMMERTIME BUT
SABRI IS IF YOU
CAN IF YOU WANT TO ADDRESS THAT
YOU CAN LIMIT YOURSELF AND
ADDRESS
WE DO HAVE THE PETITION
RIGHT.
OK, IS THE PETITIONS I WAS
HAVING TECHNICAL ISSUES BUT NOT
OK OUTWEIGHT RAISE YOUR HAND.
LET ME SEE IF I CAN MEET THE
PETITIONER
YOU HEAR.
OH YES THAT YOU CAN GO AHEAD.
I'M SO SORRY I'VE NEVER DONE
THIS BEFORE.
YES MA'AM WE DO HAVE A THIRTY
FIVE HUNDRED ONE.
YES NAME GENERATOR THAT RUNS
ONLY AT NIGHT WE HAVE TO HAVE
THAT BECAUSE THE STATE FIRE
MARSHAL REQUIRES US TO HAVE
EXIT LIT EXIT SIGNS AT BOTH
ENDS OF OUR TENT.
SO WE DO HAVE A GENERATOR THAT
IS RUNNING THAT RUNS OUR LIGHTS
AND OUR SIRENS HAS WAS THAT'S
THE SAME SITUATION WHEN YOU
WERE ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE
PARKING LOT?
>> YES, MA'AM.
I'VE BEEN DOING IT FOR CLOSER
TO FIFTEEN TO TWENTY YEARS AND
MR. HELP THE LAST TIME AND HE'S
ALSO HELPED ME ALONG THIS ONE
ALSO.
BUT YES, WE WERE THERE FOR
CLOSE TO TWENTY YEARS WITH
NEVER ANY VIOLATIONS OF ANY
KIND BUT YES MA'AM OK SO IT
WASN'T YOU DIDN'T HAVE LIKE
ELECTRICAL ACCESS AT THE SITE
AT THE OTHER PART OF THE
PARKING LOT EITHER?
NO MA'AM.
OK, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> ABSOLUTELY
.
>> I DON'T KNOW HOW THAT
CHANGES HOW I THINK ABOUT THIS
.
>> I DON'T KNOW HOW THAT
CHANGES HOW I THINK ABOUT THIS
SO YEAH WELL I WOULD THERE ARE
I DON'T PROFESS TO KNOW BUT
THERE DEFINITELY ARE SPECIFIC
FIRE CODES FOR ANY TEN AS FAR
AS MR. CHANG NOTED WHAT THE TEN
GETS OVER A CERTAIN SIZE IT IS
REVIEWED BY THE FIRE DEPARTMENT
AND THE BUILDING DEPARTMENT
EVEN THOUGH IT IS A TEMPORARY
STRUCTURE TO MAKE SURE IT MEETS
THOSE REQUIREMENTS.
>> I DON'T PROFESS TO KNOW
THOSE BUT IT WOULD BE VERY
LOGICAL TO ME THAT THERE WOULD
BE REQUIRED TO HAVE
ILLUMINATION IN THE EVENT THAT
SOMEBODY CAN FIND THEIR WAY OUT
OF THE TENT SO YEAH, I'M JUST
THINKING ABOUT IT FROM THE
PERSPECTIVE AGAIN JUST LIKE WE
CAN'T CLEAN UP NATURAL GAS, YOU
KNOW OUR GRID IS GETTING
CLEANER AND SO AS I I THINK I
WOULD PUT THIS IN THE CATEGORY
OF AS WE'RE THINKING ABOUT
TEMPORARY SALES THINKING ABOUT
THIS, IT'S NOT JUST SPECIFIC TO
THIS LAND USE AND SO I DON'T
WANT TO PICK ON THIS PARTICULAR
ONE BUT THINKING IN THE FUTURE
ABOUT HOW THEY WILL BE LIKE
GETTING ELECTRICITY BECAUSE
LIKE I WOULD IMAGINE THAT IT'S
NOT JUST THIS USE.
I WOULD ALSO SAY IF IF IF IT'S
NOT RESTRICTED OR REQUIRED IF
THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES ARE
APPROVED I DON'T KNOW THE
DETAILS GIVEN ITS PROXIMITY TO
THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY, I'M
SURE MR. CHANG COULD JUST SORT
OF RAISE THE QUESTION WITH THE
BILLING DEPARTMENT AND THE FIRE
DEPARTMENT AND THE PETITIONER
TO SEE IF THERE'S A WAY TO
SUPPLY ELECTRICITY TO THAT
APART FROM A GENERATOR.
YEAH, I WANT TO BE CLEAR THAT
THERE MIGHT BE BARRIERS TO THAT
BUT I'M NOT FAMILIAR WITH BUT
GIVEN THAT IT'S NOT LOCATED
MAYBE IN THE MIDDLE OF A
PARKING LOT MAYBE MAYBE THERE'S
MORE OR LESS POTENTIAL HERE I
DON'T KNOW.
>> BUT WE'D BE HAPPY WE'D BE
HAPPY TO FOLLOW UP ON THAT
CONVERSATION JUST TO EXPLORE IT
.
I'LL BRING IT UP IN COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS WHEN I BRING
UP THE CONFLICTING LAND USE
BUFFER IN THE TEMPORARY SALES,
THE COMMISSIONER WHICH ALREADY
NOTED WE GOT HIM JUST PUT IT IN
THAT PARK.
AND I WOULD ALSO SAY THAT AS WE
ARE MAKING OUR BASES MORE READY
LIKE THERE WILL BE MORE LIKE
THESE ARE OLD PARKING LOTS
ANYWAY.
COMMISSIONER RANDALL, I WOULD
JUST POINT OUT THAT THERE'S A
SIMILAR RELATIONSHIP THAT
HAPPENS WITH WATER IN THAT KIND
OF SITUATION WITH A FIRE
HYDRANT WHERE THERE'S A METER
THAT YOU CAN GET FROM THE CITY
AND BACKFILL PREVENTER THAT YOU
CAN JUST KIND OF PLUG RIGHT
INTO AND THERE'S A WAY
OF TRACKING IT.
AND SO THIS IS MAYBE SOMETHING
THAT THIS CITY SHOULD, YOU
KNOW, REALLY THINK ABOUT
BECAUSE IT JUST SEEMS LIKE HOW
CAN WE BE HAVING LIKE A DIESEL
GENERATOR?
>> I MEAN SO IF IT'S BEEN DONE
FOR WATER SO CLEARLY IT'S
POSSIBLE TO THINK ABOUT HOW
THERE CAN BE PRIVATE INTERFACES
WITH PUBLIC UTILITIES IN
TEMPORARY SITUATIONS
WHERE IT
CAN BE TRACKED AND BE SAFE SO I
WOULD CHALLENGE THE CITY TO
COME UP WITH A WAY SO THAT WE
CAN DO THIS IN A WAY THAT MAKES
A LOT MORE SENSE.
>> YOU'D ALL LIKE TO INVEST IN
MY NEW SOLAR TENT BUSINESS.
THERE YOU GO ABOUT WITH
BATTERIES, RIGHT COMMISSIONER?
I OFFER THIS TO THE PETITIONER
IF YOU CAN WORK WITH THE
LANDLORD THAT THERE IS AT LEAST
ONE PARKING LIGHT THAT YOU KNOW
WITH SOME MINOR MODIFICATIONS.
IT LOOKS LIKE THERE AREN'T ANY
OUTLETS AT THE BASE OF IT BUT
WITH SOME MINOR UPGRADES IF
YOU'RE PLANNING ON 10, 15 MORE
YEARS OF THESE SALES FIVE
HUNDRED DOLLARS TO ADD AN
OUTLET TO THE BASE OF THAT
LADIPO TO BE ABLE TO PLUG INTO
MIGHT ACTUALLY BE A GOOD
INVESTMENT FOR EVERYONE
INVOLVED AS WELL.
>> SO THAT I DON'T THINK IT
WILL ADD ADDITIONAL BIT BUT
IT'S READILY ACCESSIBLE WITHIN
THE ZONING THAT YOU'RE PLANNING
ON CLOSING OFF TO VEHICULAR
TRAFFIC TO RUN A COURT FOR
CONNECTION THERE.
>> DID MR. RODRIGUEZ RERAISES
HANDER'S THAT LEFT OVER?
>> I THINK I DID NOT.
>> THAT'S THAT'S YOUR FINE.
>> IF I MAY JUST ADD A LITTLE
BIT MORE BACKGROUND INFORMATION
TO BECAUSE MR. RODRIGUEZ, THIS
IS THE FIREWORKS SEASON IN
JUNE.
HE'S ALREADY APPLIED FOR HIS
PERMIT AND A ZONING COMPLIANCE
.
>> SO YOU YOU MAY IT'S READY TO
GET APPROVED.
SO HE MAY BE ACTUALLY
INSTALLING THE TEST TOMORROW
ONCE THE PERMITS ARE ISSUED
TOMORROW MORNING.
SO I THINK HE'S AHEAD OF THE
GAME RIGHT NOW AS FAR AS
GETTING HIS PERMITS AND HE'S
ALREADY HAVING INFORMAL
DISCUSSIONS WITH THEM.
HE'S ALREADY GOT HIS FIRE
DEPARTMENT APPROVAL.
SO I THINK THESE ARE THINGS
THAT HE'S GOING TO POSSIBLY
LOOK INTO BUT I THINK HE'S
PROBABLY GOING TO YOU'RE GOING
TO START SEEING HIS TENT SET UP
IN THE NEXT DAY OR TWO.
VERY GOOD.
>> ANYTHING ELSE?
ALL RIGHT.
I THINK WE'RE READY FOR A VOTE.
MR. LEONARD.
>> SO THIS IS THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE MOTION AS
PRESENTED IN THE STAFF REPORT,
COMMISSIONER LEE?
YES.
OUR CLERK YES.
>> COMMISSIONER.
YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
COMMISSIONER RANDALL.
YES.
COMMISSIONER SILVER.
MR. ABRAMS.
YES.
YES, COMMISSIONER
MR. ABRAMS.
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES, COMMISSIONER
>> YES.
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
MOTION CARRIES UNANIMOUSLY IT'S
>> YES.
APPROVED.
MOTION CARRIES UNANIMOUSLY IT'S
>> VERY GOOD.
APPROVED.
WE WILL DESPITE TIMING WE WILL
>> VERY GOOD.
INITIATE A CONVERSATION WITH
WE WILL DESPITE TIMING WE WILL
ALL PARTIES PETITIONER BUILDING
INITIATE A CONVERSATION WITH
FIRE TO SEE ABOUT THE
ALL PARTIES PETITIONER BUILDING
OPPORTUNITIES TO IMPROVE THAT
FIRE TO SEE ABOUT THE
ARRANGEMENT.
OPPORTUNITIES TO IMPROVE THAT
>> THANK YOU.
ARRANGEMENT.
I WANT TO THANK YOU GUYS VERY
>> THANK YOU.
MUCH.
I WANT TO THANK YOU GUYS VERY
I REALLY APPRECIATE IT.
MUCH.
ALL RIGHT.
I REALLY APPRECIATE IT.
VERY GOOD.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
VERY GOOD.
ITEM NINE IS PUBLIC COMMENT.
THANK YOU.
THIS IS THE FINAL OPPORTUNITY
ITEM NINE IS PUBLIC COMMENT.
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THIS IS THE FINAL OPPORTUNITY
THREE MINUTES ABOUT ANY ITEM ON
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THE AGENDA OR NOT IF YOU'RE
THREE MINUTES ABOUT ANY ITEM ON
HERE IN PERSON YOU CAN
THE AGENDA OR NOT IF YOU'RE
PARTICIPATE.
HERE IN PERSON YOU CAN
>> WE'LL CALL ON YOU FIRST IF
PARTICIPATE.
YOU'RE JOINING REMOTELY YOU CAN
>> WE'LL CALL ON YOU FIRST IF
PRESS STAR NINE THE RAISED HAND
YOU'RE JOINING REMOTELY YOU CAN
BUT ON YOUR PHONE THE RAISED IN
PRESS STAR NINE THE RAISED HAND
BUTTON THROUGH ZOOM OR CALL IN
BUT ON YOUR PHONE THE RAISED IN
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
BUTTON THROUGH ZOOM OR CALL IN
THREE FIVE TWO FOUR SEVEN.
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
>> OUR MEETING ID IS NINE SEVEN
THREE FIVE TWO FOUR SEVEN.
SEVEN SIXTY SIX THIRTY FOUR
>> OUR MEETING ID IS NINE SEVEN
TWELVE TWENTY SIX.
SEVEN SIXTY SIX THIRTY FOUR
MR. LEONARD WILL CALL IN THOSE
TWELVE TWENTY SIX.
WHO HAVE RAISED THEIR HANDS
MR. LEONARD WILL CALL IN THOSE
PLEASE MUTE ANY BACKGROUND
WHO HAVE RAISED THEIR HANDS
SOUND SO WE CAN HEAR YOU
PLEASE MUTE ANY BACKGROUND
CLEARLY AND STATE YOUR NAME AND
SOUND SO WE CAN HEAR YOU
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
CLEARLY AND STATE YOUR NAME AND
OF YOUR COMMENTS WOULD ANYONE
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
LIKE TO PARTICIPATE IN THE
OF YOUR COMMENTS WOULD ANYONE
PUBLIC COMMENT
?
BELIEVE IT OR NOT THIS IS NOT
FUN FOR ME.
KEN GARBER AGAIN I GUESS I GET
TO ADD THREE FORTY PROUD TO MY
LITTLE BOTTLECAP LIST
OF PETITIONER DEFLECTIONS,
EVASIONS AND EXCUSES.
I DON'T REALLY THINK IT NEEDS
TO BE SAID THAT YOU NEED
ENGINEERING STUDY TO COMMIT TO
FULL ELECTRIFICATION.
YOU KNOW, I JUST BRING UP AGAIN
AS I DID EARLIER TWENTY ONE
ELEVEN PACKARD IS DEVELOPER
CAME IN, DIDN'T NEED ANY ARM
TWISTING, WANTED TO RECTIFY
THAT MIXED RESIDENTIAL RETAIL
PROJECT AND IS GOING TO DO IT
WITHOUT GOING THROUGH A
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING STUDY.
THEY HAVE RETAIL AS WELL.
I DON'T THINK THEY ARE
CONCERNED ABOUT THEIR RETAIL
RENTERS THAT THEY'RE GOING TO
HAVE SO MUCH MORE TO BE SAID.
THANK YOU.
MR. LEONARD, IS THERE ANYONE
ONLINE THERE IS NOT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
LET'S MOVE ON TO ITEM TEN
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS.
>> YES, MR. LEONARD, I HAVE
CLUB WITH RESIDENTIAL USE
VERSUS RESIDENTIAL IS OWNED.
I HAVE OUTDOOR SALES.
I PRESUMING THAT PART OF THAT
IS DO WE NEED A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION FOR OUTDOOR SALES OR
WOULD IT BE BETTER TO SIGN A
TEMPORARY REPEATED BASIS AND
INCLUDED IN THAT SHOULD BE
MINIMIZATION OF FOSSIL FUEL
IMPACTS LIKE BUILDINGS?
HOW CAN WE ORIENT TEMPORARY
SALES TO THE EXISTING
ELECTRICAL GRID?
YES, THANK ANY OTHER COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS ITEM ELEVEN
WELL SORRY COMMISSIONER DE
BRANDELL.
>> SO THIS IS COMPLETELY
UNRELATED TO ANYTHING WE'VE
TALKED ABOUT AT ALL BUT THIS
HAS REALLY BEEN BOTHERING ME
FOR THE LAST COUPLE OF MONTHS
WHICH IS THAT YOU KNOW, BEFORE
COVID PEOPLE CAME IN HERE TO
SPEAK TO US AND I THINK THAT
THERE'S A RELATIONSHIP THAT
HAPPENS WHEN PEOPLE ARE IN
FRONT OF US AND WE CAN SEE THEM
AND WHEN IT'S ON ZOOM AND IT'S
JUST A NAME, IT FEELS REALLY
DISEMBODIED TO ME.
AND I WOULD LIKE AT THE IF THEY
CAN HAVE THE CONVENIENCE
OF BEING HOME, I THINK WE
DESERVE TO BE ABLE TO ACTUALLY
LOOK EACH OTHER IN THE FACE.
>> I JUST FEEL LIKE PEOPLE CAN
KIND OF HIDE BEHIND THEIR
CAMERAS SOMETIMES AND I REALLY
WOULD LIKE TO HAVE THE
POSSIBILITY OF HAVING A MORE
AUTHENTIC CONNECTION WITH THE
PEOPLE AS THEY PRESENT IT
DOESN'T HAVE TO BE THROUGH THE
WHOLE MEETING OR ANYTHING LIKE
THAT.
BUT WHILE THEY'RE SPEAKING A
WHILE THEIR TEAM IS UP OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
YOU KNOW, WE'VE HAD THE BENEFIT
OF SORT OF HAVING THAT HUMAN
CONNECTION IN THE ROOM FOR
DECADES AND DECADES AND DECADES
AND IT FEELS LIKE IT'S REALLY
BACK NOW LIKE TOO MUCH AND I
THINK IF THEY HAVE ISSUES WITH
TECHNOLOGY THEY CAN COME IN
BECAUSE THAT'S THE WAY IT'S
ALWAYS BEEN.
SO THAT'S MY TWO CENTS ON.
>> BUT IT'S JUST ONE OF THESE
THINGS THAT PETITIONERS YEAH,
EXACTLY.
>> SO I FEEL LIKE THERE'S BEEN
SOME DISCUSSIONS OVER THE LAST
COUPLE OF MONTHS WHERE IT'S
LIKE THINGS HAVE GOTTEN A
LITTLE HEATED AND IT'S LIKE THE
PERSON IS BEHIND THEIR BACKS
GREEN AND I JUST I DON'T LIKE
IT.
I REALLY LIKE TO BE ABLE TO
UNDERSTAND FACIAL EXPRESSION
AND ALL THOSE CUES THAT JUST
GIVE US A SENSE OF HOW THE
INTERACTION IS GOING.
SO THAT'S ME PERSONALLY BUT
AGAIN UNRELATED TO ANYTHING BUT
IT'S JUST ONE OF THOSE THINGS
THAT'S BEEN GETTING ME I SO TO
THAT WE CAN WE CAN WORK TO
EDUCATE AND EXPECT VIDEO ON
FROM PETITIONERS.
BUT I ALSO WANT TO BE CLEAR
THAT THUS FAR I'VE BEEN
COMMUNICATING A TO PETITIONERS
THAT WE WELCOME THEIR
PARTICIPATION REMOTELY.
WE DON'T HAVE TO DO THAT.
WE COULD WE COULD FLIP THE
SWITCH AND ASK FOR A TEAM OR A
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE TEAM TO
BE IN PERSON.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING WE HAVE TO
DECIDE.
BUT I'VE BEEN YOU KNOW YOU SEE
MY MY TEAM IS REMOTE.
PETITIONERS ARE REMOTE.
I'VE STILL BEEN OF THE MIND
OF TRYING TO SORT OF LIMIT THE
PEOPLE IN THIS ROOM IF THAT IS
HAVING ADVERSE IMPACTS.
AGAIN, I'M NOT SAYING WE HAVE
TO GO THERE BUT IF WE WILL
START WE CAN START
COMMUNICATING IMMEDIATELY WITH
THE EXPECTATION TO KEEP VIDEOS
ON.
>> I THINK IT'S OCCASIONALLY
THERE'S AN ISSUE WITH WHAT I
SEE BUT THAT'S PRETTY RARE.
I THINK.
BUT IF THAT IS NOT
SATISFACTORY, I JUST WANT TO BE
CLEAR.
I COULD TAKE YOUR DIRECTION AND
JUST START COMMUNICATING TO
PEOPLE THAT WE EXPECT TO HAVE
THEM IN PERSON FOR THEIR
PETITIONS.
FOR ME PERSONALLY I'M OK WITH
THEM BEING REMOTE AS LONG AS IF
THEY ARE REMOTE THEIR CAMERAS
ON DURING THEIR THEIR TEAM'S
TIME OR WHILE THEY'RE SPEAKING
AT THE VERY LEAST THAT'S THAT'S
AGAIN THAT'S ONE MEMBER OUT
OF THE ENTIRE BODY HERE.
>> BUT I FEEL LIKE THAT'S KIND
OF THE LEAST THEY CAN DO IF
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE THE
CONVENIENCE OF BEING HOME THAT
THEY CAN AT LEAST BE KIND
OF PRESENT FOR THEIR TEAMS
PRESENTATION AT WORK AS DO I.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS I WANT TO PUT YOU ON
THE SPOT BUT I WANT TO
ACKNOWLEDGE YOUR PRESENCE.
THANKS FOR BEING HERE TONIGHT.
ARE YOU HERE WITH SCHOOL OR
WITH A TROUPE OR FANTASTIC.
WELL I HOPE THAT YOU LEARN
SOMETHING ABOUT HOW LOCAL
GOVERNMENT WORKS AND THAT WE
ARE ALL VOLUNTEERS TALKING
ABOUT DIFFERENT THINGS EVERY
WEEK GRADES OR ANYTHING ELSE.
ANYONE WANT TO MAKE A MOTION TO
ADJOURN MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
WHICH SECONDED BY COMMISSIONERS
OBEY ALL IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY
SIR RAISE A HAND AND THAT'S ALL
THE HANDS.
THANK YOU FOLKS.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON NEXT WEEK AND